Hello, hello. Oh, that's it, there's a contact.
So, let's get started, right? Today I want
to be as small as possible in the format of
a talking head, a bald talking head, so I want
to get acquainted with you, to talk, to ask
you questions. We have a very wide geography
gathered today. There is already an active
resident of the Academy, and who is already
from the Academy? Ignat? Yeah.
Therefore, you can stop asking these guys
what's going on there. Now maybe Egor will
come from Ufa and tell you. The goal of today's
event is to show you in numbers about the
ready-to-buy business market, what we do
as the ready-to-buy business academy, what
it is in general, to share specific experience,
practice, I will show you the numbers. I counted
a week, told some of the guys, analyzed the
revenue of all 1 ,500 Chizhiks in the country.
I'll show it to you on one of the slides.
So, you know what my request is? Please
interrupt me in the course of the play, ask questions,
say that you don't agree with something, let's
sort it out. Let's have a format like this,
talk as much as possible. Come in, come in.
In a more simple format, family and spiritual environment.
So don't be shy, this is not some kind of lecture,
even though I am a math teacher by education.
I love to talk. Where is my wife? Where is
your wife? Nina?
Where is it? Oh, here it is. I lost it. Even
my wife tells me that I need to listen to her.
And my younger daughter falls asleep with
the word GAP-GAP-GAP instead of KOLOBELNY.
But these are already professional deformations.
Let's go. So, I'll quickly tell you. I had
a presentation in IELTS for a couple of days.
There are 100 slides.
The first 13 are about me and the rest
is already on the topic, so now I will have
to talk about myself for a couple of minutes,
and then we will move on to the specifics.
Marin, what do we have with the presentations?
Well, that's it. Marina is our director of
the Academy, so... If anything else, I'm not guilty.
If they don't send it.
It's okay. Questions in the microphone. Let's go.
Who am I? I hope you've watched the interview
with Mr. Carlson. I've re-watched it three times.
I liked the expression, who are they? What
are you? Who are you?
So, let's go. Who am I? I call myself an expert
on commercial real estate and ready-to-rent business.
I have been dealing with these things for
the last 15 years. It so happened that after
I graduated from Samara State Pedagogical University,
I went to work as a realtor in a local real
estate agency. I worked as a realtor for three years,
sold all sorts of apartments and rooms there.
Then I accidentally switched to commercial
real estate, fell in love, and for the last
15 years I have not changed. I really like
this topic.
Realized more than 3 ,000 projects in the
area of ready-made rental business. You can
see them all. The growth of the capital was
worked out in one company, Samara. And we
raised the capital from 215 million to 2.17 billion.
To one wonderful person. Exactly on this model.
Now we have a great relationship with him.
Despite the fact that I left the company not
quite well.
We broke up. I took 27 people with me. I knocked
on the door and said, oh, you're like that.
Well, okay. But now, in general, everything
is fine. Great relationship. We even go to
the sauna together, communicate. Discuss the project.
So, what's next? Well, it's not quite interesting
about investments.
I manage capital of private investors from
100 million. My favorite topic now is not
to create, but to buy. For me, real estate
is an intermediate instance of capital growth.
That is, we have a model that is not quite classical.
We invest in real estate, but we grow capital.
And managing capital, we have real estate
as an intermediate instance. I will tell you
about specific examples.
So, this is just for that wonderful person.
So, we made companies with them, cooperated
with them. For the first time in Russian retail,
we made such a thing as a development department
on outsourcing. What does it mean? They did
not have and do not have a dedicated development department.
And we helped them to decompose their plan,
their development program to specific house numbers.
That is, we bought under them, they had there,
conditionally, we need in Ufa. And we did so.
Come on in.
Hello, hello. We made a decomposition of them
to the numbers of houses. That is, we looked
for them in specific houses and bought them
objects in specific houses. I'll tell you too,
I'll show you. I'll also show you an interesting
model there. It's okay, that's enough.
Today, I don't know, Dima Ladosov wrote, Dima
will probably come or not, on Telegram channels,
such an interesting in the sphere of Russian
Telegram community person. If he comes, it
will be interesting. Dima Ladosov, he himself
is from Ufa, too, well, from Bashkortostan.
He has a exchange, there are Telegram channels,
and he is, in short, in the world, it is a telega,
such a competent, respected person. A lot
of things I also study there, I look up.
Well, the technology for creating a ready
-made retail business, I am not modestly called myself.
Well, why not? Yes. That's why I have a technology
that we teach in the academy and is called
the technology of the name of Novikov. Not modestly.
So, well, let's go. That's it. I quickly shot
through these 13 slides about myself. And
now specifically...
What do I want to show? If you have any questions,
feel free to ask. I will share my experience
with you. Today I will tell you about five
trends in commercial real estate that we observe
and what we can do on the basis of these trends.
How do we use them? The first trend I have
is called substitution.
I'll explain why. On the example of specific objects.
The city of Samara, Republican, I think, 61,
if memory serves me right. There was a five,
a five from 2011.
And it was not doing very well. As a result,
it was trading there. Let's see. It opened
in 2011. By the way, I wrote such an article
on the channel. Here it is. You can watch
it on the channel. In general, what happened?
The five in 2022 closes. What's going on?
The guys are trying to sell it in parts.
In 2023, Chizhik is coming in. It's a normal practice.
Come on in. It's a normal practice, but I'm
interested in analyzing revenue. Revenue,
traffic, average, as the main indicator of
any Russian retail. What's going on and what
can be done about it? Chizhik came in, okay.
But what's the point? Chizhik is coming in
on a smaller area than the five. That is,
Chizhik needs 400 meters.
Come on in! Come on in, make yourself at home.
Chezha has to have a 400-meter contour, and
a 500-meter one, as a rule. That's why you
can put a Chezha after those who have left.
It generates traffic. I'll show you why it happens.
The remaining area, in this case, the left part,
is an additional meter. It didn't go very
well here, guys. The project is not ours.
And often it turns out that you can leave
most of it to yourself and sell it, register it.
But the most interesting thing is in numbers.
If you look at the presentation, it will be
on the channel, I also have it, as a summary
of what happens in numbers. If the five was
barely reaching the five, then Chizhik, having
worked out how many numbers there are now,
but you see, in 4-5 times the profit of Chizhik
in the same place is more. This is such a bright example.
In a month, of course, in a month.
For what? First, price policy. Minus
30 % to 5%.
Second, the assortment matrix, they have the
number of SKU, if the five has, I don't remember,
two and a half thousand SKU, Chizh has four
hundred and eight hundred, in my opinion.
And why do people go there? Why did people
come to the same place in the five when Chizh
was opened? Just pay attention to what is
happening in the regions. When Chizh is opened,
an active advertising campaign begins.
TV, radio, billboards, everything is ruined.
Chizhik products at flight prices. Come, hurry,
hurry up, buy painting and so on. That is,
they invest money in marketing.
And that's it. That's why, as soon as... Well,
we even have spouses, parents, who go from
the suburbs of Samara, from Mishliavka, they
live in a private house, and they go to this store.
And I go there to my father-in-law, look,
and what do they have there, like, these,
non-alcoholic beer, there, these, Nalovka.
I say, and what does he say? Well, it's like,
well, two times cheaper. Well, that is, people
recognize and go to the store.
And now it turns out that this particular
store serves not only the nearest neighborhood,
but also radio, television, newspapers and
everything else. They invest in marketing.
And that's why they attract traffic. Here.
Very easy and simple. Well, further, if you look,
you can dig there already and the data on
the middle check, but we are concerned, in general,
we are concerned with the revenue at the end.
Everything else is already there, location,
location, yes, by the drum, but the most important
thing is revenue in our model. Therefore,
what do we do with this trend of substitution?
Look. Ah, an example. This is the city of Tambov,
Bastionnaya street 10.
This is a case of our residents. There was
a story about Chizhik. I don't remember what
year it was. At the beginning, there was a store
called Rossinka, I think. Then there was something else.
And there was a five. Who is already drawn there?
Correct, a five. Even Vanya Zheltanogov is
in the Academy. He is a builder with experience.
He builds for magnets, for five. He has a good,
high-quality approach. He does the analysis
of this project. And we got two girls, Elena
and Natasha, they put Chizhik there. And then
they implemented it as a GAP. Vanya did the analysis,
and he also wrote, like, a temporary tenant.
These are his words. Temporary. I want to
give him this Alverde. What happens? Chizhik
comes in, okay, to the place of the five.
They don't bother, they hung banners on the drum,
they have everything ready for repair, it
will go from under the five. What happens?
Look, it turns out a very simple logic. Chizhik
took that part, right?
Everything is under repair, and one of our
residents is buying a room. If my memory serves
me right, he's buying 19 million, do you remember?
Well, up to 20, 100%. And what does he get?
I'm afraid to be mistaken, he pays 180, but
there are already plus or minus 200 maps existing.
Well, the classic basement of 600 meters,
which we forget. And, in fact, the right part,
which is either decadastrated or filled. Well,
calmly, we threw the economy on the napkin.
After decadastration, 20 put in, 35 went out.
Here in this project. Please. And it was problematic.
And if you take it before Chizhik sat down,
then it would be possible to take it for $15 ,000,
but $5 ,000 is a disaster. What can we do
with this trend? It's very simple. We even
have a case in Volgograd where $5 ,000 went down.
We knew, we understood, okay, but what's the point?
There, for example, you are already looking,
there is already a Chizhik through the house.
What to do? Well, actually, what is there?
Fixed price. Already in advance, plus or minus,
there is an understanding. And then we look
at why the five went down. Well, we analyze specifically.
If you take Volgograd, it's very simple. It
opened there a year and a half ago or a year ago.
But it did not bring out this story with Magnit,
because Magnit in the neighboring house is
trading 8-10.
And the five was barely three, it was four maximum.
What to do? We get a room on the first floor
of the apartment building, which is perfectly
registered without additional hemorrhoids,
depending on the number of entry groups. And
we just get the opportunity to cut and sell
in parts. If something goes wrong. And we
get the opportunity to buy a ready-made trading
room at a low cost.
Here's a trend, please, let me give you an
example of what we've done. So, this is Chelyabinsk Oblast,
a city. If the guys from Resident will help me, meat.
Yes, I didn't lie. Come in, come in. Look,
I just remember working with Chizhik, well,
you can say, two years ago, right? Not even
in 2023. I even remember January 2023. What
does Chizhik tell us? We work with them in
many regions. Only the first floor, only 400 meters,
only the zero level, only the unloading zone.
What happens in the end, even in the middle
and at the end of 2023?
We see that Chizhik
even sits in the basement.
I really like this example, it's one of Andrey's residents.
I was pleasantly surprised myself, because
it's like a basement. It's not a basement
with windows, not a semi-basement, it's a basement.
There's a number of steps. Will it work or not?
Now, if we get a video, it will start. So,
what's the point? I'll show you on the slides.
Now, Chizhik. Come in, come in, it's okay.
We have such a home atmosphere. Chizhik is
ready to sit on the second floor today. Ready
to sit in the basement. The developers are
giving us these scissor lifts themselves.
They say, here are these, put them for us.
That is, there you can, and here is the table.
Does it go down?
I want to show it to you, because I didn't
understand how they agreed. I was in Moscow,
too. I was writing somewhere on the channel.
Tizhek sat in the TC, in the far, far corner.
In general, in the far corner. And you need
to go to him, there are overlaps. And here,
look. Yes. Look. And the entrance is like that.
And the unloading. We have already finished
the unloading separately. Andrey went to shoot.
Look. Who has time, count the number of steps.
I wonder Here it is, the first stair march
The second stair march went Look
And then the door to the store
Look. And in concrete. A brilliant solution.
There's a thing called concrete lacquer. It's
like this. On top. So that there's no dust.
Go through. And that's it.
Pожалуйста, смотрите. Единственное, выручку
не уточнил. Потом посмотрю выручку, как он торгует.
Мне просто тоже очень интересно. Но сам факт,
смотрите, что еще мы с вами посадим в подвал.
Да, да.
In general, they are unloaded in an interesting
way from the side. Well, this is an OSZ, right?
In the back of the building, they have a platform,
they have, what is it called, a cargo table.
And he went down. Yes, yes, yes. Table.
Well, of course. Again, this is the most popular question.
What will happen in a residential building?
We need a land plot on which there will be
either a lift or a table that goes under the ground.
And the question is, what do we have with it?
With the fact that land plots under residential buildings,
as a rule, are not formed, so let's go. What?
Microphone. Often not formed.
But... Come on, I'll connect you. Did you
want to communicate? I'll make you do it anyway.
Come on. No,
no, no sound. And while you plug in the next slide...
Hello, there.
While Nina is setting up the microphone, look,
this is the most popular question. What about
the unloading zone? Because in the unloading zone,
the main moments come with food trucks. Yes, Nina?
Yes, I would like to add that, on the contrary,
these land plots are now formed, and the question
is just urgent for everyone. And it is correct
to make a protocol for the general assembly
of residents, because the managing company,
as a rule, does not have the authority to
issue certificates that allow this goods unloading
zone to be produced in a certain place. Yes,
so imagine making a protocol for the general
assembly of residents to approve the unloading zone.
But anyway, do they open without protocols?
They do. Are they risky? They are. Is it possible
to close a store according to the statement
of one of the residents because specific parts
of the article are violated? Yes, it is possible.
Has this ever happened in practice? Yes, it has.
In Moscow, my guys showed me, if you look,
pay attention to Avito, 5, Magnit, they have
official accounts, property is sold.
Pay attention to the fact that Magnet has apartments.
Do you know what kind of apartments they are?
No. Well, they are on the third floor. And
they are for those who are sick of it. And
especially smart guys write about it.
letters of happiness to Magnit and say, bro,
I want to go to Hamovnik. And really, they look,
it's not a joke, it's the reality of Russian retail.
They move, give conditional Hamovniks from Zelenograd.
Therefore, this is not a scheme, by no means
a call to action, we are just speaking on
the other side of the trench. But look, apartments
are being sold. And in these apartments, pay
attention to check my words, there is a magnet
in this house. Think, knowing such a scheme
and buying such an apartment, as they say,
we can repeat.
That's why in Samara there was one case in
my practice with a five, when they closed
the store for a year due to the insistence
of one resident. The
person was very principled.
You know, I think maybe they just didn't offer
him such a practice. Maybe it's a Moscow practice,
but I don't know. In the regions, it's not
like that. These guys, by the way, were sent
to us by the developers of Chizhik, who are
now saying, put us something like this. Like this.
On the second floor, honestly, I haven't seen
Chizhik yet. Or rather, Chizhik was somewhere
in Moscow, in the shopping center, near the crossroads.
But it was the property of the X5 itself.
I'll throw it away, the resident sent a photo.
Let's move on.
Well, actually, look, I've been analyzing
the revenue of all 1 ,500 Chizhik stores in
the country for the first January of this
year for a week. Look what's going on, what's
happening in grams for Chizhik. Look.
Well, as a math teacher, I really like it.
19 stores, well, yes, in the percentage of
the total mass of one and a half thousand
open stores, more than 30 stores are selling there,
19 stores, the maximum is 37 stores. Dolgoprudnaya
11a is the first foreign store that has opened
in the country physically in Moscow.
And then, what I personally like, what we
have as a summary, an important note is that
more than half of the stores operate for a full
six months. Yes, 811 stores operate for a full
six months. Why six months? Because it is
I who take in my mathematics the exit to the
planned indicator of the store's profitability.
They have a different strategy. In the next
2-3 years, Chizhik won't be closed at all.
This is insider information. Keep it and use it.
If you find closed Chizhik, be sure to download it.
It's very interesting. I don't have another one.
I haven't seen it in the next two years, but
it is not planned for today, according to
the information that I have. In summary, more
than 60 are trading more than 10, and then
the wonderful mathematics begins. Why? Because
we know that in Moscow Chizhik gave 2%, now,
according to rumors, I have not met a lease agreement,
it gives more.
2.2, someone told me, but I won't believe
it until I see the lease agreement. Come in,
come in. 1.75 in the Moscow region, 1.5.
And from the minimum, I saw, 1.15%. In the regions,
the working fork is 1.15-1.5%. These are
the numbers for you. If you have anything
to ask, to add, don't hesitate at all. Now
the microphone, please, so that you can be heard.
I got it. Hello. Why is Chizhik not opening
in St. Petersburg? Even if you read the official sources,
they wanted to go to Linnoblast, but for some
unknown reasons, they said they postponed it.
I don't know. Well, yes, we had such a strong excitement,
everyone was waiting and said that it would
open this spring, and now not a single one
is opening. They said that Chizhik would fly
this spring. Yes, yes, we just had unreal expectations.
I don't know. Maybe it's connected to the
FAS share. I have an assumption. What does
it mean? That the FAS share in St.Petersburg
has a limit. They don't have a limit for FAS now.
They removed it. Because of what? Because
of franchise stores? Because of the fact that
they had to fill up the empty spaces. They
recalculated it. Yes, they had to fill it up.
A lot of stores left at the beginning.
To be honest, I don't know. Why? Because in
the Lenoblast, they officially announced it.
Then they said no. But I assume that it will
happen after some time. Maybe it's with logistics,
I don't know. I see that in the Lenoblast,
there is a huge number of franchising stores
that are very good for the five, more than
30 million.
That's what I see. Very, very. Maximum, I don't
remember the area, Shushara, but I may be wrong.
46 million. 42, 46, five. Franchising. Franchising.
Very good score. So, moving on. If
you have any questions, ask. Please, please.
One moment.
You are summing up Chizhik's revenue, but
they are different, the areas are different.
No. Or are they the same? They are the same,
plus or minus the 400th contour, absolutely
all of them. Ah, so 400 square meters. 400
square meters, yes. Although, there is also
such an interesting thing, at the end I will show,
they show the average area of Chizhik as 292 meters.
No way. Here they are less than 450, they
do not sit down. I have not met, in general,
in the country,
I know that there are only 4 stores in Chizhik
less than 300 meters away. So their working
radius is 350-400 meters. Thank you. That's
400 meters. That's why they are all the same.
In fact, you can go even further and calculate
such a normative indicator as the exit from
the trading meter by sales. Well, that is,
how much per square meter? You can do 400
very rudely. Very rudely.
And it's even better to do 350. And that's it.
And if you take all of them as a given, then
even 1 ,500 will be an acceptable error. So,
let's move on. Ask, don't be shy. What to
do with this trend? Well, what are we doing?
Let me show you an example. I won't tell you
the city yet, because Nina didn't cross the line.
We bought the premises. This is the Republic
of Bashkortostan. A city with a population of,
God forbid, 200 ,000 people or 250. Well,
it's not that important. Okay, let's do it.
More than 100 ,000, for sure.
One real building, 700 meters, 400th contract
signed by Chizhik, MAP NIN-220, fix. $220
,000 fixed cost, and it's important, in the
lease agreement, look how it's written. Fixed
cost $220 ,000 or 1.5 % if RTO
is $20 ,000 ,000 and more.
For me, this is what it says, I remember the
previous figures, that Chizhik himself allows
and assumes that more than 20 will trade.
More than 20 from 400 meters. Well, we will
reach the steel square, we will give up the
same coin, although they seem to have refused,
then they consider and so on. Another important
life hack. Come in, come in.
Chizhik sits with anyone. Under five, above five,
on the side, on the right, on the left, it
doesn't matter, diagonally, it doesn't matter.
And if you look at the earnings of such projects,
where there is both Chizhik and someone else,
and the earnings of someone else when Chizhik
sits grow.
For some reason. As a fact, as a given. Therefore,
even if we put another product of the century
next to it, we don't bother.
The guys tell me, who else will sit next to it?
It doesn't matter at all.
Absolutely. At the end, what can we do? What strategy?
We can cadastrate. Separately, we will have
just Chizhik. We can even have a common drum,
so as not to get confused. Separately, we
will make that area. But here are the numbers
that we will get. Why do I count on 40-50?
I took 28.5 as a reserve.
We've bought 24 of them, there's also team
work and a repair cost of 1.5 million, I think
it'll be 2 million maximum. Even if we make
it to 30, with 400-450 maps, our Bosch Karatastan
will sell 100 plus maps. Here are the real numbers.
The facility was in open access for a long time,
probably for 2 years. So, please, from the
open market. By the way, we don't take anything
from the trade. Yes, please, give me the microphone.
This is the case. I just want to show you
a specific example. Tell me about it. Does
Chizhik have some kind of landing model? One
to one. Descending? There is a descent along
the contour. Here it is. No, along the city.
How close are they to each other? 500 meters
so far.
That is, one Chizhik from another 500 meters?
So far, depending on the city, on the number
of inhabitants. Well, that is, they have a radius.
Earlier, on January 23, they had a radius
of 500 to 5. Today, February 24, they have
a radius of 0 to 5.
Therefore, this figure can change. In general,
in this story, you can not even... Although no,
now I remember Volgograd again, and we can
put Chizhiko through the house. Interesting.
Well, I don't know. The question is cool.
I don't know.
I don't know. In the development department,
of course, I need to talk to the guys. I don't
know what their plans will be. Well, look,
do I allow such an opportunity that they will
sit through the house? Do we have five people
through the house? A lot. And why can't there
be Chizhikovs through the house?
Why? Well, what if Chizhiks replace everyone?
Well, let's fantasize about it. I don't know,
the questions are really cool. I don't know
how they exist. There is one lifehack. Today
I showed it to the guys on the morning broadcast.
Go to the Chizhiks website. They have open stores.
And there are planned for opening with the
opening dates on the official website. Please,
you can watch.
If you have any questions, feel free to ask.
We'll discuss it.
Do they have a ban on opening similar
goods and stores in the same building? Like Magnit.
Do we have it? Alcohol and food?
Yes, we do. How do you treat it? You
buy it, put it on another person's face. How
do you treat it with decadastration?
So we will highlight this contour here, and
it will be another real estate object. It
will heal once we level 3. By the way, it
didn't exist before, but it didn't exist a year ago.
I don't know when it appeared. So, Aziz? I just
wanted to add something. I've never seen Chizhik
across the house with a 5, but there is a city
in Saratov, two 5s are right opposite each other.
Yes. Yes, yes, yes. It's a good practice,
so I say, well, I assume that the Chizhiks
will be against each other. When? Well, it's
a matter of time, we'll see. So far, no. Yes,
so far. You can even just look at their location
on the map. I remember just when they launched Volgograd,
look, by the way, I say, how they are still launching,
yes, there are new stores. They are stepping
away from RC, and specifically in the Volgograd region,
they signed contracts, paid, somewhere there
they took holidays, and then...
For a week, we opened 25 stores. For the next one,
we launched another 20 stores. That is, they
all grow from the roots. Let's move on. So,
actually, who is this? This is Diana, a resident
of the Academy, a girl who completely collected
this project, the previous one. Diana came
to us in June, well, since June. Yes, here
we held an event, I think, in May, in the
same hall. Here is Diana, we have her there.
She collected all this, we bought it from her.
By the way, if you are interested in the presentations,
you can interact with Diana. There is a Telegram.
Write to Diana, say hello, what do you have
from Gabov? I want to buy. Please, interact.
Let's move on. The next trend, which I called love,
is Aprilization. Why? And what is April?
In today's numbers, the largest pharmacy network
in Russia. They had 7 ,000 points in
November 2023. At first, they announced that
by December 2025, they would open
In total, I think, 4 ,000 more pharmacies.
In general, talking to developers, they said
that their plan is to open 11 ,000 more
pharmacies by December 2025. 1 ,000 pharmacies.
1 ,000. That is, in a year, it's 5 ,500 pharmacies.
Five and a half thousand. Well, that's okay.
If you divide five and a half by 365 in your calculator,
how much is that per day? Approximately. Twenty?
They have an investment program on their website.
To be honest, they haven't made any case yet.
What are they talking about?
I don't understand it. I can
only explain it to one person. Well, what
is it? Corruption in the ranks of red and white?
Will you comment?
Why? I don't know.
So maybe you and your internal corruption
will sort it out, guys? No, but if the corruption
doesn't contradict the company, then let it be.
This is the only company in Russia, even in
our situation, that has already bought an object.
It's pre-approved. That's it, the place,
everything is approved. We bought it, we send
the release, they say, go to the forest.
It was the same for me. We bought a room.
They refused to take it from me. We changed
the owner. They refused to take it. We put
it on sale. No one buys it. We rented it for
a month. We set it up more expensive. A man
bought it. We are sitting in the office. We
are signing the documents. I say, what are
you for? He says, for a red bicycle. I thought
about it. I have 10 of them. They didn't take
it from me. He knows something. What's the result?
How much has passed? Did they take it?
No, in the end, they didn't take it from him
or me. I made a joke like that, earned 1.5
million rubles from the sale and let him go.
Well, you see, this is, again, the value of information.
We have, I'll share my rumors, this is not
a practice, that, like, the guys who are there say,
you need to keep it for three months and send
it back.
Well, stupidity, I don't know at all. Well,
let's keep it, let's try, let's experiment,
right? That, like, it lay off for three months,
and the corruption went away. Yes, in three months.
Well, is that so? Yes. Well,
that is, it does not contradict the interest,
or rather, it contradicts the interests of
the company. Guys, well, if I, well, look,
and counter-position of Aprel pharmacies,
right? He says, buy it, we will compensate
you for a year.
Pожалуйста, оставляйте официальную заявку
на сайте, отвечайте в течение двух суток.
It works. That's what it means to me. By the way,
April wasn't that favorable. They changed it.
They turned the hut in front of them. Because
it's necessary to open 5 ,500. And if you
turn the hut backwards to everyone, you won't
open that much. And what happens? According
to the rumors, again, according to the rumors
of the guys who are there in development,
this R.A. program worked.
And there was a program for
the employees of April. They say, guys, we
are developing in retail, make money.
Buy it. It's not a question at all. We will
compensate for a year. For me, this is a strategy
of the conquerors of this market. Why April?
Because. Very adequate position. The application
on the site can be sent to approve the location.
Please, send the number of the house. They
will write to you for two days according to
our practice. If it fits, you go to the next stage.
So what can you do with this trend? On the
official website of April, please, the interaction
goes directly. I wanted to show you the bets
on April, well, just from practice. So,
what should you pay attention to? I am very interested.
Look, in Samara, by the way, they say it's real,
it's just that they have there, how much is
the figure? 1680, right? How much is there?
1580. This is an exception. This is not a rule.
Moreover, this is a suburb of Samara, who
knows the 116th kilometer. They signed the contract.
Sasha Zaytsev has a room. Sasha gave me the contract.
1500. Two years ago, April in Samara gave
500 and no more.
The situation has changed. Next, about indexing
with April. Take it and use it for yourself.
What is April? April is a contract for 30 years.
Unindexable. Very smart guys work there. Yes,
yes, please. Is it possible to fight this somehow? No.
Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
It's completely different. Do you know what
argument people say when they buy with pleasure?
It's reliable. Why think about a person who
comes and buys with his own logic? He has
his own logic, and it's the right one.
It's like in that meme, right? You had a strategy,
and you held on to it. I had a strategy, and
we held on to it. How did you win? So, yes,
I'm still thinking about it. Are they being
sold in April, like hot cakes are being sold?
30-year-old, what's more, they should be
offered a 50-year contract in the next facility.
Let's end forever. Dmitry, but they had 7 % once
every 5 years. That's what the units know.
April is now signing indexed contracts with
a 5-7 % fork once every 3 or 5 years.
Well, I've been communicating for 25 years,
7 % of the time for 5 years. It's important
in a one-sided way. But why? Because for
those who don't know yet, the phrase by agreement
of sides means never. Well, you know,
you understand. And they're by agreement of sides.
Oh, they're by agreement of sides for 30 years,
indexation. Yes, but that means we think it's not.
Do you have a microphone? Yes.
Well, we'll figure it out now. Well, it was
also written in red and white according to
the agreement of the parties, but we won.
Won? Yes, we wrote for several years, we were silenced,
then we thought, let's go to the bank, go
to court, and in two days... So you have a court decision?
Yes, yes, yes. Here. We got a pre-trial decision.
Pre-trial?
I'm not a lawyer, but please help me. As far
as I understand, we don't have a precedent law.
I don't know, I've heard it somewhere. But
even if it was a judicial decree, could it
be spread?
We also saw court decisions in Nizhny Novgorod,
where the rent was also raised. Court decisions?
Yes. I honestly hear it for the first time,
thank you. But again, I'm interested in getting
to the numbers. How long did they sit for?
10 years? 5 years? 5 years they sat. 5 years?
I'm interested in the wording in the decision,
what kind of argumentation, in connection
with what?
No, we wrote that due to the increase of everything
that happens. Inflation, growth. Yes, yes,
yes. We wrote everything. Two months passed,
the correspondence, they were silent. And
there are a couple of days left before the
first decision, the meeting. They come out
with a proposal, let's remove our requirements
by 50%.
I said, wait, I'm not ready to talk. I look
at the table. Some asked us to raise it by 5%.
I said, do you want to raise it by 2.5 %?
I said, no, it's not serious. And some of
us had 10%. We insisted on it.
Cool. Well, you see, the practice of today.
What's the summary? So, can you torture? Yes,
I was just restrained by the fact that there
are a lot of shops, and we thought that, for example,
some shops are profitable, others are not profitable,
and that they would blackmail us with this.
But it turned out that if it is not profitable,
they will close everything. So what's the difference?
I'll close it now or later, right? Well, that's
the practice that you can win without washing,
not with something so dirty, right? You don't
have to be afraid of them.
Probably yes, but their position is not close
to mine. We have a model, we don't buy and own,
we buy and resell. So in our model, we don't
work with them. Here is the answer to the
question if it is possible to index later.
Apparently it is possible. How long have they
been sitting without indexing? 5 years. Cool.
Interesting. Here is a new introduction.
Yes, we had a lot of court practices where
we had a court decision, and we were told
that the agreement of the parties is equal
to the agreement of the parties. You signed,
that's it, the other party did not agree.
If it changes, cool, thank you, very valuable
information about the KB. Cool, cool, cool.
You can win the KB. So, this is about the
rental rates in April.
What I want to draw your attention to is that
in different cities, in fact, they can give
500 rubles in the same city and one and a half thousand.
And today. Therefore, what is the summary?
Come in, come in. You can trade with them.
You can. Again, when you understand that you have...
Oh, what else is tricky? Look, this is, again,
information from a friend. How did he do this
indexing of 5 % to 7 % every 3-5 years? He said,
I already have a room with such a contract.
And we have a practice that we threw such
a contract, even not we, the owners, but another.
They say, oh, you already have such a contract,
we say. And I have it in a template. He says,
then yes. A template of such a contract.
Let's move on. Trend.
Actually, what to do with it? I didn't say
to interact. What to do with the trend of Aprilization?
We have address programs in April, for example,
in Tatarstan with house numbers. They have
a list of house numbers in cities and settlements
of 2 ,500 people. Think about it, in settlements,
where they need it. And with house numbers.
This is the first. The second, you can interact.
Give me a question, I'll tell you.
Again, a question about April. Well, and about
them too. We buy a room. We increase
its cost in some number of times and sell
it to those who are interested. How is tax
evasion built and how...
Minimize these negative things. It depends.
Well, how? Your experience, tell me, what
do you do and how do you do it all? USM 6%.
6 %? Yes. Not income minus expenses?
No, 6%.
But look, our strategy is different. We have
a strategy of aggressive capital growth through
the creation of a ready-to-rent business.
I call it that briefly. Therefore, in our
strategy there is an IP on NDS, 20 % and NDFAIL
is 15%. Yes. It depends on the strategy, what
you want and how. Therefore, there is no single recipe.
There is a correctly formulated strategy for yourself.
Yes. For someone, income minus expenses, too,
you need to count and look at the fork. Where
are we going? We have a majority of OSN at 6%.
The majority. In practice. Yes. But there is,
and please, we have a story. Again, what is
the beauty of IP on NDA? Again, you can buy
with the incoming. Here you need to be able
to work and choose your strategy. Therefore,
I will not give a single recipe, I do not
know what strategy.
Because here the long-term ownership strategy
is not close to me. I'll explain why. I'm
talking about regions. After analyzing 3 ,000
realized projects, I just look at the term
of ownership and the relative and absolute profitability.
Relative in annual percentages, absolute in
rubles per invested amount. And that's it.
And I understand why I came up with such a strategy.
I understand that any object that we keep
for more than a year, in practice, in regions,
we begin to become poor.
That's it. That's why we sell in a period
of up to a year. We bought our strategy, and
in a period of up to 12 months, we made money.
That's it. That's how we are. Yes, there was
a question. Come on.
Yes, not a question, but a small note from experience.
Why 6 %? If we talk about new buildings, my
investor bought, then sold, and we had 15
% open at the time of purchase. And now, at
the time of sale, we have opened 6%. Why?
Because we talked to many consultants, to
tax authorities. If it's a new building, and
it's commercial real estate,
I forgot the details, but all the tax consultants
explained to me that there would be problems,
and why they recommended it to me, that they
may not accept a quote. Therefore, no one
touches 6 % at all, the difference is small
on the general business model, it goes to
the ice, but no one cares about you at all.
The main difference there is relatively small,
it turns out, in practice, yes, in practice.
There you also need this in expenses, well,
that is, and we need to understand that we
have just bought for...
30. We'll sell it for 45 in a month. And move on.
That's our strategy. But everyone has a different one.
I don't know. Or we bought it and divided
it into two. And then we'll sell it for 50.
Two for 25, relatively speaking. So, in practice,
we're at 6%. That's how it works. For some reason,
it's more effective. For some reason. If you
have any questions, please ask them. Yes, please.
Do you use commercial real estate when you sell,
buy, or depreciate in a contract? Your moral right.
You just don't use it, right? You just pay
10 %? Not at all. Today, never. Not at all.
I will not sign up for a story with depreciation.
Not at all. Why? I'll explain. Because the
story with the development of bankruptcy...
Both legal and physical people. It's just
such a machine now. That's why I'm not going
to get into this story at all. Everyone makes
their own decisions. No, no, no. Here we have,
please, we buy a credit card, Sberbank, full
value for a credit card, right of ownership
has passed, the credit card has opened, that's it.
I don't want it. Someone, well, choose, it's like,
again, a choice of strategy.
I don't want to. I want to sleep in peace.
I have a second question. I'm worried about Chizhik,
who is in the basement. Is it a single case?
No, it's a mass one. It's not a single case.
Now they are giving us a jackal, basements,
loading zones. The most important thing is
how to unload. This is more worrying, even
on the first floor.
I haven't seen it on the second floor, but
developers say, guys, it's okay, put us a scissor lift,
we will unload. Therefore, this is not a single practice.
So, let's move on. What do we do with April?
Well, in fact, we work actively, we buy under them.
Airat came to us today, Nizhnyakamsk, Tatarstan,
bought 3200, April 60 thousand, I don't know
if he sold it or not, I haven't recognized
him yet, but he will sell plus or minus 6 million.
Here is a story that can be made in regions
with such checks. Therefore, April, at least
what I saw in April in the five thousandth region,
but they even on the official website it is
written that the settlements are from two
and a half thousand. Please. Yes, this is normal.
Dmitry, April is signing PDA, right? This
is the 12th term. In 12 months he is ready
to sign PDA, and on the basis of PDA we can
already sell? We did not have a signing on
the purchase program under them, we did not
have a practice. This is what they have officially
on the site, and according to developers,
the program supposedly does not work, but
it worked for employees.
There was no water with April, and there was
no practice either. So, the next trend. What's
wrong with our time, Marin? When do we have
a break? When there's food. Yeah. Come on.
So, can you read it for me? Can you take the
microphone and help me? Yeah.
Let's talk. We still have an online broadcast.
And I'm fine, I can see, right? Everything
is fine, good. Yes, you ask questions, don't
be shy. I want to talk. And the main goal
is that we spend more time in the so-called
couloirs and talk there. Microphone, please.
No, no, no, we just have an online recording,
you can't hear it, people are asking. So,
the question is online. Now, now, now, offline.
Yes, Dmitry, hello. Look, you said that you
don't take space from trading, please comment.
With pleasure. Trading in my picture of the
world is a bloody ocean.
A large number of statements, the topic is
pumped up. Plus, for some reason, people think
that they are somehow deceiving someone by
buying objects on the market. I don't know.
Well, that is, there is a lot of competition.
Why do I need trades in which the cycle is
long anyway, right? Rather than from the open market,
I'll take. Well, that is, it's just easier.
Well, and on the market, the price is mostly raised.
Damn, well, I'll tell you a story. We go in.
Yes, thank you. Can I say
something about trading? Yes.
There are actually a lot of risks and questions
can arise during the trade during three years
of the same arbitration manager. Therefore,
the risks there are really very high. Why
did you think that, on the contrary, there
are fewer risks? No, there are a lot of risks.
I just do my main job of security and work
with the arbitration manager. There are a lot
of stories. Security of arbitration managers?
No, we protect the competition mass.
which is managed by the arbitration manager.
And the arbitration managers are all different.
There is someone who is decent. Also people?
Also people. And about the Krai Ocean, or
the sea, as you just said, that's how it is.
There are a lot, a lot of statements, a constant struggle.
But even in our case, we published, there
is Ufa, there they drove the object 300 meters,
bought, damn, how much, don't you remember? Yegorovsky.
120 million? 300 meters? Wow! 120 million?
Are you kidding me, guys? Have you been there?
Have you taken part in it? What was the starting point,
Anton? 45? You took 120, right? And 126? Who
are these people? You
weren't the only one.
We were one and 70, I'm even lying, two. So,
listen, and comment too, if there is a practice
in trading, right? How are you with trading?
Marin, our microphone.
Well, as you say, it's not like a bloody ocean,
but you just need to go to something very
non-standard. If the room on the first floor,
as it was in Ufa, but I honestly expected
15 participants there, roughly speaking, well,
maybe 10, but not 70. Well, in principle,
simple rooms are understandable for the same
April and Chizhik, but it's almost impossible
to trade.
Especially if it is privatization, not bankruptcy,
but something even simpler and obvious, risk-free,
for example, Moscow trades. Well, that is,
again, recently there was a room on Krasny Mayak,
I had a five there, agreed for LAM-300, and
I know that it will not give more, but it
was bought for 196 million. 196 plus 1.3 maximum.
Well, why do they do it, I don't know, but
in principle, that's it.
All the time, all the time, plus or minus.
That is, you need to be on the market only
if something is very obvious is working now.
That is, some broken pigsty, something there,
I don't know, it can even be completely banal,
some equipment there, well, such a plan. That's
what the mass segment can't do so far.
Yes, I also watch Maxim from Resident Academy,
he is very cool in trading, I even read his channel.
He recently wrote a case on stops. In
cities with a population of 50 ,000, there
are stops. And the stops are beautiful, they
are re-equipped for coffee shops. And there,
even in some city, I don't remember, there
was a project, they bought a lot of 20 or
30 such pavilions. Very cool.
in a single design, of course, in accordance
with the city, etc. But the trades, here is
the confirmation of the words. Marina, come on,
the question. So, a question from an online viewer.
How to minimize the tax from the resale of
GAPs when reflecting the full cost in the DKP?
The answer is already there. The OSN is 6 % common practice.
But again, if someone in this story with these
1 % things, but there are those who go, this
is again a choice of strategy. Therefore,
it is correct, well, in practice, not that
it is correct, but effectively it turns out
like this. The second question. And in the
eastern region of Chizhik goes Novosibirsk,
Krasnoyarsk, Irkutsk? Later. Now the five
goes there.
Later. They will bring their RCs. Here. And...
Well, very simple question. Chechens will
be everywhere. In all regions. Everywhere.
All over the country. Here.
Another question. There is a room in the new
residential complex in St. Petersburg. The
area is 120 meters. Who can be profitably
put on such an area? I will always answer
these questions. I don't know. I don't know.
Avito knows. You take, place it on Avito and
see what can sit there. It's very simple.
We have 100, top 100 federal tenants. The
answer is this. Any of the federal tenants
who need this location, the area is suitable.
How do I know? I don't know. Let's move on.
Let's go. Give me the mic, please. I'm forgetting
that we have an online session, guys. Tell me,
please, are the open sources where you are
looking for a room Cyanavit or are there more
effective ones? It didn't turn on. We need
to press something. No, no, no. Marina
will help us now. It's some kind of fashionable
digital one. Yeah.
Tell me, please, are the open sources you
use to buy rooms Cyan, Avito or are there
even more effective ones? In Siberia, in the
Far East, Avito and Cyan don't work. In Moscow?
I don't work in Moscow. That's how it happened.
I know that Cyan is more popular, the number
of exposition objects is more than on Avito.
We use Avito Cyan, DomClick, Yandex real estate
and specialized ones. For example, in Volga
there is MLS City, in the Far East there is Farpost.
There are regions in which, and in Moscow
I can't, I have no practice in Moscow. This
is not Russia.
This is a different country. Let's go on.
Ask questions during the play, please. So,
PvZ-ization. Have you ever looked at
the Wildberries map? The Wildberries PvZ.
Have a look.
I was just preparing for the presentation,
opened it and was stunned. I thought, wow,
that's great. They have links on the official website.
I have links on the channel. You come in and
type the number of the house and it will write
to you.
Is it possible to open it? Is it not possible
to open it? There is an official website for PVZs.
If you can open it, then, by the way, you
can also take a franchise from them, open
a franchise. I don't have an expertise in this,
but one of our guys in the academy bought
and buys PVZs. He
showed me the numbers up to 30 months of its availability.
up to 30 months. Well, this is like a ready
-made business. Employee, issuance, all that stuff.
And if this topic, what am I talking about,
how to use the trend, I'll say it right away.
If this topic is to be combined, for example,
you somehow formed a room in some house, looked,
Wildberries is suitable, you can take a franchise,
Wildberries, Ozone, Avito, XMall, Yandex
Market and so on, and rent out your franchise.
Very good model. And if you make a fin model
of an object plus a franchise, you will see
that thanks to a short period of purchase
by the franchise, your model takes off. And why?
It depends on the strategy. You can, how?
You can, conditionally, well, in numbers,
I'll give an example. You bought for 10, you
have an rent, let's say, you pay 150, and
it fits well in the business model. You sold
for 15, and the cost of opening is less than 5.
And you got a ready business for 0 rubles.
This is one of the strategies that can be used.
Please, go on. One created, turned into another.
That is, with one capital, you can increase
the amount of PVZs. Guys, I know, practice.
I honestly have data, please pass. I have
data from one person, he showed me. Look,
these are populated areas, 50 ,000 plus people.
These are not even millionaires. It works
very well there.
Well, Ozone is the same, Yandex.Market, now Avito,
I was sitting there, Avito and XMall were sounding.
Well, also interesting. What to do with this trend?
Well, actually, we look, yes, it fits, we
check it on the site, and now I said, the
franchise can be like this.
Kazan Express bought Magnit, now they
want to reformat their Magnit delivery and
develop it. I have a feeling that Magnit
is getting worse and worse.
I don't know. What's worse? It's worse for
me compared to the five. Maybe it's because
of my appearance. It's just my taste. But
we'll see about the profits. Next, the trend.
We're going to Siberia, to the Far East. I want
to highlight and show you why I personally
find it very interesting. Look, I want to
tell you. Does anyone know? I was preparing
for the presentation, I was sitting for two days.
The working village of Vanino, in the Khabarovsk region.
Right from here, I put a point in the navigator,
8 ,900 kilometers away from it. If you go
from here, you may not come. Never. They
even have such a, well, not a coat of arms,
just a minute of geography about Vanino. I'll
tell you later what Vanino has to do with it.
This is where it is located. There is a port.
I really want to visit the Far East. I have
a dream. Let's go. Look. Amba bought the network.
71 stores. They started to reformat them starting
from March 2023. These 71 stores.
They make a new format, with coffee, with bakeries,
they put it from the bottom of their hearts.
This is one of the stores they reformatted,
this is also a Amba store. There were a few
more in Amba, I don't even remember the names,
some other brands. Look, I really found it
on DoubleGiss. It comes with this store.
Look, do you see the logo of the five on the
frying pan? What would even local
birds know? They heat it up. I think
it's a brilliant marketing solution to make
frying pans and brand them.
So, these are the five formats. I don't remember
any other shops besides Amma. Again, let's see.
We need a baker, a doctor, a pharmacist. Vanya's.
And what does it have to do with Vanya? Look.
These are discounts.
stores that the five opened and began to reformat AMBA,
MAMBA and so on. Look how the five is trading.
In my opinion, knowing that they pay from
5 to 7 percent of the turnover, okay, from 4,
this is very good. And here is Vanina, look,
Vanino store for 28... 28? 28 days, 35 million.
Holy shit. No. December 2nd.
December 2nd, 2023. Yes. Damn it. Well, that's good. Yes.
How much does Vanina cost there? Damn. Damn,
you asked a good question. Look, the working
village of Vanina, Khabarovsk region. What for?
When I found out, I began to look at what
is being sold. Nothing is being sold. No,
rather, there is such a story, there is a sea port.
$17 ,000. That's good. 5 % for
$35 ,000 ,000? $1 ,650 ,000, right? We need
a question. Of course. It's not even a question,
I just wanted to tell you a story about a supermarket.
In the city, with a population of 45-50 million,
there were no supermarkets at all.
Yes, thousands. It's a Chinese province. Yes,
45-50 thousand people. There was no supermarket
at all. There was a market, shops, everything.
There was a supermarket.
And I watched the whole city go to this supermarket
just to look. But when people left, they left
already with baskets. My friend, as an investor,
he bought a share. A share? Yes, a share
in this business. That is, he bought this
supermarket with partners. The fact is that
it is more than a million dollars.
It was 15 years ago. If he
had left earlier, he wouldn't have suffered losses.
But after 5 years, he suffered losses and
people didn't go there anymore. Because supermarkets
started to appear. They opened for the New Year.
That's why I thought, maybe they really didn't
have any supermarkets and everyone went there.
I have a question for such an investor. First
of all, why the hell did he buy a share? But
it's okay, it's everyone's personal business.
And what did he suffer for five years? Losses?
No, he received income, but people then became less.
Well, of course, it's logical. We even have
a car, you drive on it, it breaks, you change
it for a new one. So here, too, there is some
kind of life cycle. There is a restaurant,
again, we have a friend, he has 26 restaurants
in Samara. He calls the life cycle of working
in a restaurant two or three years, and then
you need redesign.
So, is it an eternal story here? No, it's not.
But it's an opportunity. The opportunity to
buy Vanya is clearly not to weigh 100 ,000
square meters.
And earn 5 % from 38 million, 35 from 30.
That's what I'm talking about. And what is
not eternal, well, yes. I'll even say a terrible thing.
We will all die. Someday. But I want to live
this number of days as much as possible. And more,
or something. That's why I support it, yes.
But here's what I want to say. What are the
beautiful regions? You take what was in Moscow
10 years ago.
You bring in Vanina 15 years ago, and you're
the king of Vanina. And you have the opportunity
to make money in Vanina. Not in Moscow, but
it's clear that here it's like 60-50 % of
everything and so on. But the country of Moscow
is not limited, and moreover Moscow is not Russia.
Well, it's so. To the fact that yes, I agree.
Next. What to do with this trend? Well, what
are we doing?
I'll show you. Khabarovsk region. We are considering
one project to buy, a five, which has already
opened separately, not Amba, everything went separately,
opened and so on. The guys are analyzing what
is what in Khabarovsk region. In Khabarovsk specifically.
We talk with agencies, with private brokers,
we monitor markets and so on. When the guys
show me, this is part of our correspondence
with Dima Khrupin, he is also our resident
of the academy, he is my mentor, his company
is in Tyumen, I'll tell you about him now.
The occupancy in maps is 150-300. Khabarovsk.
150 plus occupancy. Well, indecent.
These are open sources, agencies, agents with
whom we talked.
What are we doing? I put it on purpose, because
we want to buy this project now. Dima offers,
Khabarovsk, well, Khabarovsk 5, in short,
the cost of the project will be up to 70 million,
65-69, there will be a working fork. Well,
why? Because 5.5 % is traded, traded since December.
What do I want to do and what are we going
to do now? I suppose to do how? Buy now, for
70 we will buy, and in a year resell for 100.
My strategy is very simple, logical. If everything
is sold around 150 plus, when we have one
million of rental flow, what do we see? What
do we see from where? From here.
We'll look at the environment, geography,
collect data and numbers, but I see that the
number of 5s is slowly going up to 20, because
there is nothing else nearby. The 600 map
turns into 1, into a million, and can we sell
a million of the arena stream in a year in Khabarovsk,
when everything in the area will be sold,
150-200 maps? I guess so, we'll see.
This is what we do with this trend. Dima Kruppin.
These are the numbers of the forecast map
of this particular project. I got used to
the fact that my trading model works. If a person
wants 60, then he will not give it back for 45.
No way. Here, on the contrary, it turned out.
I said to the guys, okay, offer 45 million,
we'll send you a million today, and so on.
Dima calls me and says, Dima, well, I say,
well, what? He says, well, 63. I say, what
the hell did you bargain for? On which side
of the trench? Well, maybe we'll go down.
But why? Because Khabarovsk, Khabarovsk region,
Far East, please, look.
Oh, I have a message for Dima. In our academy,
the guys are making deals with each other now.
And there is a description of the project.
To be honest, I even missed this project.
I didn't see it there. One of the guys bought
a warehouse there. It turned out to be a three
-year purchase with a set of non-federal tenants.
Well, the guys are already interacting with
each other. Well, cool. I say, Dima, congratulations,
well done. Here is Dima. He is alive, real,
from Tyumen. You can even write him a telegram.
Yes, please. I don't know why they didn't
come today. Tomorrow is the meeting of the residents.
We will discuss all these objects. Share,
communicate. Take a picture. You can write
to him. He doesn't know. I finished the presentation yesterday.
I tortured the girls. The guys don't know.
You will write to them now. Hello, I'm Adima.
He will say, what? Tomorrow I will warn them.
Who else is going to Siberia to the Far East?
The fifth one is clear, right? Okay. Magnet
is clear, they bought Sambar, I'll tell you
about it now. These guys. I've done very few
projects with them, literally 4, I think,
all the time. The coordination cycle was a year,
that is, we coordinate for half a year, we build,
introduce for half a year, and so on. That is,
to open tasty points, I lay out a scenario
for a year. We just work with them, I'll give
you a correspondence, I'll smear everything
so that the guys don't burn.
The developers, the development directors,
the divisions and so on, they say, here's
the CSU for us, guys, we need it there. And
they give us a list of cities and streets,
specifically, where we need tasty points.
Who else? Well, Magnit. They bought 270 or
290 stores in Samber.
Let's see what they have there. What do we
do with that trend? We go to Siberia, to the
Far East. Well, we buy, please. Who is there?
Well, actually, Dima and I.
Dima and I have a task, there is a city, the
locals will tell you. Noyabrsk, does anyone
know such a city? It's a good city. I'll name
the number, we have an object on the task,
27 million. Thousand, 500 meters sits a five,
300 thousand maps. 300, wait. 300
thousand maps are recorded. And I don't remember,
4 or 5 percent of the turn. And 500 meters
of free.
Now the owner is changing the WRI. Have you
changed it yet, Nen? Not yet? Well, how do
we act? We give a task and conditions for change,
the type of land used is allowed, so that
it corresponds, blah-blah-blah. The owner
is changing, we buy. We will have a map of
Papa John's there, previously agreed on the
remaining square. But for the first time I came
across such a story that there is a sewer there,
not a central one, but a burial pit. And it
doesn't suit them.
For example, there are fat-catchers and so on,
that's the whole thing. And now we will try
to connect to the central pipe, well, plus
or minus 2 million it will be. Well, the numbers
are like this. Thousand, our cost will be
about 30 million. In principle, the 600th map,
I think we will sell in the area of 55-60 million,
plus or minus. Well, I'll add more, there
are pluses of communication and so on, well,
I'll even add a cost of 135. That's what we
do with this. So, next.
This is the trend. The population is 5000
plus people. If you have any questions, ask them.
There are online questions. Come on, Marina.
Dmitry, question one. How do you define the
Finnish model in the regions? What is the
Finnish model? It is not said what.
Then I can answer with a pen and paper. What
kind of question is this? What is your portfolio
of tenants besides Chizhik and Invitro? With
whom do you see successful strategic cooperation
in the coming years? I want to focus on Chizhik,
Pyaterochka and April.
That's my strategy. Why? Because the first
one needs 1500 stores this year, the second
one needs 1500 stores this year, the third
one needs 5000 pharmacies this year. I want
to take a narrow segment, and the narrower
the segment, the more professionals you are
in it, the more information you operate with.
Well, that is, product retail. Product retail
is a plus, and then to add to the product
retail of all the others. These are my top
3 for today.
Another question. In one of the speeches,
you talked about 1 % when registering in the OECD.
Does this topic still work to reduce taxation
or not? I don't know. If these 1 % regions exist,
do they use them? They do. Do they use me? No.
You have to understand the logic. This is
a story created for the development of these regions.
And I live in a paradigm that if they used
this mechanism now, why did they think that
it would not come back in three years? Why?
Or in five years? How many years have passed
since the tax was sent to us? Five years have passed.
Five years. We sold the room, already forgot,
crossed over, already forgot what it was.
They say, no, no, no, we remember everything.
Look, there you had one second share. And
where is your lease agreement? What are you there?
How much did you earn on rent? You paid the
taxes normally. We have a question, what is there?
The thing is that we didn't pay the rent.
Well, damn, guys. Well, yes, that's why. And
who said that you'll play this story with
1 %? You'll play. And in 5 years you'll be told,
brother, you didn't live in Murmansk. Apparently,
you were in Moscow, cheater. You didn't develop Murmansk.
Or something else. Question, Marina.
How do you find the developers in the
region where you plan to open? You named Khabarovsk,
Ufa, completely different regions. How do
you find them? Secondly, let's be honest,
the developers are pretty lazy. How do you
speed them up? We work with the people who
need more than us.
For example, for this facility that we bought
in Bashkortostan, Chizhik gave us a pre-agreement agreement.
We wrote the agreement three times. On
January 23, Chizhik said, go to hell with
the pre-agreement. Today, Chizhik corrects
the agreement three times. They need more
than us. They need to open 1 ,500 stores.
And we just work with the people who put the
company's interests in the first place, not
their personal ones. Can you give me the microphone?
I can't hear you online. So I understand correctly
that you initially know that this space is
interesting to them, so they themselves will
be interested. I've just come across the situation
that the developer is like,
In short, it's a good location, I'll come
there and take a look. And in the end, only
when I reached the leadership that is responsible
for this region, the leadership that is responsible
for this region, only then they started to
properly consider this location. Although
it suits them, but the regular developer is
not very good.
Do you know how it works? First, we work with
those who need more than us, but this is even
the second. And the first, there is such a book,
I recommend it to everyone, it's called Don't
Work With Assholes.
We don't work with faggots. It's not a vocation,
it's a set of behavioral characteristics.
No more. So why work with those who need to persuade,
beg, kick? But we know that as a company,
we work with people. Yes, but we know that
in April we need to open 5 ,000 pharmacies.
Damn, guys. We have exactly the same situation
with developers from Bristol in Yekaterinburg.
We called them every 4-5 months to make sure
they were in the right place. They were constantly moving,
moving, moving. We stopped communicating with
Bristol at all.
Yes. One way or another, it all depends on people.
One way or another, there is a human factor
in making decisions. But now, for example,
we are working with those who know how to work,
who want it and who need it. And we just don't work,
as I say, with assholes on religious grounds.
In April, there are people who are interested
in outsourcing. They work with people who
develop April in the same way and who get
some kind of
With pleasure. Look, my policy is very simple.
We cooperate. We cooperate with everyone,
absolutely. We discuss the size and work on
the shore. Well, how much does the work cost?
Every work must be paid. Well, that is, my
policy is very simple. Any work must be paid.
If you bring some room, conditionally, an agent,
for God's sake, we will cooperate, we will
pay a million, two, three, the number on the maps.
Well, not a question.
Does the economy allow it? It does. The policy
is like that. We were very simple. Why did
we occupy... Well, of course, according to
the standards of Samara, the leading position,
I'm not talking about Moscow. We made such
a relationship that we formed our own name.
Well, that is, everyone started working with us.
Five, magnets, and so on. Why? Because we
just fulfilled our obligations. Always. That's it.
And we are not harmful to companies, we help
them to carry out their development plan.
That is, we are not enemies, on the contrary,
we are partners.
Maybe it's not a professional question, but
who does the repairs in these remote areas?
Depending on the tenants, yes, for example,
we are now weighing in on April as well. We say,
brother, you need it, not me. That is, are
they all ready? Not all, not always, but,
for example, it should be understood that
they have, the federals have the so-called CAPEX,
that is, the cost part for repairs. Chizhik,
for example, in that year made a maximum of
2.8 million in Moscow, yes. Now, it seems,
they have increased the CAPEX, well, that is, there,
Smeta for the repair of Chizhik, tell me.
Bashkortostan, 4 million. And in January there was,
according to Bashkortostan, a maximum of 2.
Maximum. Yes. That is, they are changing.
And therefore, why are they interesting? He came,
he needs, he does the repair for his money.
Well, we will put there a million and a half maximum.
But 4 he will put. They themselves.
Who is the person we are looking for? The
person we are looking for has done three tenders
among construction teams. Tendered, chose one.
Let's go. Where are we looking for? On a very
secret site, don't tell anyone, it's called Avito.
To be honest, there is also such a section
on Avito called useful people. If you need
to do some work, you can go to the site, even
in the settlement, you can find photos for
300 rubles, not a thousand rubles. That is,
you can do anything, check, find a local,
you can do it with the help of Avito.
The same people live there. Yes, there are
5 ,000 people, but they also eat every day.
They have the same bad habit as we do. Even
some manage to do it several times a day.
How much did you get to the final agreement
and how much did you lose? Many federal companies
now sign the PDA with pleasure, but then they
don't get to the final agreement. Yes, because
the legal PDA means nothing. The only document
that has legal power in cooperation with the
federal retailer is the lease agreement of
future things. More precisely, the lease agreement
of things that will be created in the future.
And it is distributed not only on construction,
which few people know for some reason, it
is distributed on the property of the owner
of which I am not at the present time. The
same thing. That is, this is the thing that
will be in my property in the future. And
the legal value is only such a contract. And
the preliminary contract of the rent, as such,
the legal force does not have. Did you have
experience working with BTA? Flew away. Flew away,
but this is in practice less than 1%.
Well, that is, in general, yes, of course.
Even for me, for example, I don't need PDA.
I don't need it. Well, that is, I know that
Chizhukov in this facility really needs to
open more than me. Is there a risk that he
won't come in? Yes. What to do? We write an
anti-crisis strategy, answer the question
as if we bought it, but he didn't come in.
And what are the reasons for that? Mostly,
the opening of the store nearby. That's the
most important thing. So, before buying, we
look at where else, analyze, study. There
are no other reasons. They held committees,
spent resources. And we understand that the
plan must be fulfilled. They have money in
their budget. Do they hold committees at PDA?
This is no longer related to the committee,
or rather, this is after. This is already
an instance after the committees. Why? Because
if the committee is approved, then the task
is to conclude. And depending on the situation,
but I say, a year ago they did not sign, now
there are three protocols of disagreement.
Fine, they are correcting, but what is it about?
We understand very well, we did not sit in
the basement, we sit down, the second floor,
God with you, now put us a lift.
It is necessary. They are powerful guys. They
tested and realized that there is no such
number of projects to satisfy their requirements.
Therefore, I adjust the technical task. Very competent,
in my opinion. So, please, enjoy your work.
Given your experience of working with Chizhik,
do they have a tendency to reduce the area?
Even in Samara, there is a case, we have one
of the residents, Ilya Furusov, he bought
my price for Magnit, and he bought it, it
was agreed, even the PDA was, I will clarify,
they did not come in, and Chizhik does not fit,
it is exactly 300 meters on the first floor,
and there is also a basement with a lift,
like 150 meters.
So I say, let's do it, if there is an underground Chizhuk,
then let's have a half Chizhuk. But no, they say,
they don't get involved yet. So, for now,
the working area, the contour is 400, the
minimum that I met in our practice is 350.
Minimal. Why? They have a certain amount of
product residue, layout. They have a term
called pallet space. They place their matrix
and look at it. They need to sell the product,
make turnover. Maybe there will be some half-chizhik.
Who has less of the birds? By the way, I don't know,
the guys from the academy sent me this too.
Have you seen this? Chizhikeya.
I thought, okay, it's just a meme. Then the
second and the third ones were sent, and the
fifth one was really put in the Russian patent
under the name of Chizhikeya. Didn't you hear that?
Really? Chizhikeya? Guys,
you're still... Dima, an online question.
Go ahead. Hello, Dmitry. Tell me, please,
how to start a business from scratch without money?
No way.
Once again, Dima, without money, from scratch,
how to start a business with GAP? If you are
an investor or if you are a broker, that is,
if you have no money from scratch, there is
no money even to move on phone calls and on
the phone, or how? I think it's not to that extent.
I think it's more of a reference to the GAP Academy.
Ah, well, if, in principle, what you can earn
here for creation, well, that is, well, we...
There is a girl, Diana, who will earn her
million rubles from this magnificence. We
will pay her. She has never made a single
deal in her life. In June of that year, she
did not know what the lease agreement was.
Moreover, the purchase and sale agreement.
Moreover, what is such a Chizhik. So, can we?
Well, we have guys working, we can.
The Academy is preparing specialists who haven't
started yet. Look, we have a good mercantile goal.
We need hands that collect it in all regions.
We have applications. We have a sale. We have applications.
We have 10 ,000 applications for this year.
We have financing. We don't have hands. Well,
not that we don't have them. There are few
of them. Therefore, if there are no hands
as production capacities, we need to create
these production capacities.
Therefore, if a person does not have money
to be an investor, he can come to us, learn
and start working as a broker, earn from a million
rubles from each transaction, from each GAP creation.
Maybe, but here we need to change our minds
so well.
Because in practice it turns out. Yes, well,
that is, I'm not propagandizing to the guys.
You have one deal, you should not earn less
than a million. Why? Because I show you the slides,
of course, a lot of work will be done for this.
The same thing that I ask Nina there, what
do we have with the lease agreement? Yes,
we have been collecting all this for four months.
Well, yes. But we, excuse me, will earn. We
will enter at 30 with all expenses, at 45
we will go out. But we earn from this well.
And we share part of the profit.
It's not a question at all. So, is it possible
from scratch? Of course, it's possible. But
everything will depend on the person, definitely.
We will give a tool. We have a base of 3 ,000
contacts of federal lenders. Take it. Take it.
There are even guys, I see, it's cool, I like
it too, to be honest, I'm enjoying it, I'll
comment on it now. The guys come in, then
they start inside, they take something from
us and run their courses on gabs.
I don't think they learned the great truth
and came in and said, we have a base there,
we have 3000 contacts.
I see companies appear, create a ready-made
rental business, this and that, in all regions,
even in one-on-one formulations. Why am
I not reacting, not acting? I'll
tell you, I'll share. A very simple reason.
Since we have a good legal service, and
we have contracts made in this way,
that anyone who wants to use our work will
face our copyright. And not now, but
maybe in three years, maybe in two, maybe
in a year. If I suddenly get bored, I'll
do it. You can earn well on these things.
And if you don't know, there is an extensive
practice in Russia. You know, this site is
called All Houses of Russia.
What did they do? They photographed all the
houses of Russia. All the houses of Russia
were photographed. The facades. And since
they knew that realtors are lazy, in most cases,
we even had such a story. Everyone used these,
with a watermark, vse-doma.ru. And they,
in my opinion, for three years, if not five,
and then what started?
Even our guys, when they worked in the company,
they won all the courts. And they were seeking.
It's easy. Well, look. They were collecting
evidence for three years. And then in the courts.
That's it. So take it. Introduce it. Use it.
It's not a pity. But this is a lyrical introduction.
Let's move on. Questions? Microphone. Yeah.
When do we have food, Marina? 16? Yeah.
Dmitriy, could you explain, do you mean fines,
sanctions, if you take courses and suddenly
open the same ones? Yes, yes, yes. Or about
the fact that if you start... What courses
do you open? Because it's like... No, no,
no, of course, if you start... If you suddenly
start taking courses... If you suddenly start,
according to the author's methodology... Do
you remember the author's methodology of Novikov?
You take the methodology and run the courses.
I'll wait three years. Yes,
well, it's a joke, but in every joke there
are jokes. Microphone. Colleagues. Can I ask
a question? Come on, come on, come on. I don't
see anyone.
As for the new brokers, what statistics
do you have? What time do you need to assemble
the first GAP? I can tell you about the practice.
Since we opened on June 1, as an academy,
we have already structured everything in two months.
We have a git course, records and so on.
It turns out that now the honest working fork
is 3-6 months. Here 3 is cool, in the fork
3-6 months, a person if straight 0. But after
half a year, if he is not the back heel of
the right foot, something is done here, well,
that is, damn. I always answer as my father said,
bears in the circus are taught to ride a bicycle.
Yes, but then you also need to sell tickets.
And there are tickets here, I'll show you
a joke, you don't need to sell tickets here,
they are already sold. Tickets are sold. Okay,
second question. How many hours a day or
a week do you need to spend to create a gap
in three months?
Well, according to my observations, it's not
from 9 to 6, thank God, but at least 3 hours.
3 hours? Yes, 3 hours. But again, how is it here?
There are just funnels there, and you start
with the first one. What logic is there? I like
it so much, I want a reference to the guys
who copy something. They take it and, for example,
look at Avito, 200 ads in the store.
200. I understand how much it costs in money.
You shouldn't have more than 10 employees.
That's what avitologists teach. That's a great phrase,
avitologists. We also bought training on Avito.
Yes, it's great, but we realized that in real
estate we can launch our own courses on Avito.
Guys, you have such a powerful aggregator,
you don't need anything but a phone. Open
the office of Avito Pro. Why can't you invest
10 thousand rubles in your own marketing?
Your target audience is sitting on Avito.
Who buys a building? In Samara, the largest
amount for which we sold, 450 million.
How did the person come? From Avito.
How do people look at it? Do they have some
kind of secret hideouts where people can find
information about GABs? Closed bases? It's
complete shit. People are the same. I have investors.
They open an avit, they have everything in
their hearts. The notification comes, and
if not, they don't give a fuck, they call themselves.
A person is not lazy to buy an object for
450 million, to communicate with himself,
it's not bad at all. It's okay.
So, well, you, damn, first of all, well, joke,
a person calls you, we even ourselves, well,
guys will call, I don't call, I don't communicate,
I listen to calls. There is a building that
sells for 100, 150, 200 million. You don't
call from the first time, you don't call from
the first time. Yes? Well, that is, you call,
you say, brother, 200 million, I want to buy
a building. He says, listen, let's do it tomorrow.
I thought, who the hell are you? Do you really
have no time to talk for 200 million? And
this is a cool opportunity. I understand why
we are making deals here. I will even go a little further.
Eight years ago, I forbade all employees to
call me.
Physically. There was no such function to call.
The effectiveness of the work processes is
very large. I just understood, what do you want?
Formulate the question, what do you need?
And then, what is this even for? Because now
on Avito you can put such a slider, only messages. Awesome.
A person calls me, even in Volgograd, writes,
I want to buy. I say, great, let's go communicate
in WhatsApp. That's it. And the business
process built here, damn, I am very excited
about the opportunities that are in the country.
And imagine in the area of ​​the village of Vanina.
In a working village, actually. But if we
talk about practice, let's say I'm going to
work for 3-6 months. This is the result that
the guys already have. You can already see it.
Because we, as an academy, we don't even have
a year. There will be a year in June. You know,
I have such interesting guys. I have experienced guys,
Muscovites. They came in, paid me for the mentorship.
And they don't call.
I have Ivan Orlov. Vanya, hello, if you are listening.
I say, come on, let's talk. He says, Dima,
everything is fine, I'm busy later. He also
deals with gags. It's really cool, beautiful.
And about the quality guys, Dima Khrupin,
whose contacts I gave, they are from Tyumen.
They had a company called HitInvest. They
are two partners, I will talk about Andrey there.
Dima Khrupin and Andrey Turok. Khrupin, Turok.
Hit. Hey, you. And they... What, Nina, do
you show?
Here's Egor, resident of the Academy. I'll
tell you about him later. I didn't see Egor,
I thought Dima was sitting there. Dima doesn't
look like Egor, he's different. I'll tell
you now, the thought is gone.
The guys came, their company is engaged in
the extraction of objects from the markets.
They came to us from Samara, went to visit us,
we talked. We simply disassembled their business model,
I say, why the hell are you doing this? Such marginality,
so much hemorrhoids, and plus the fleur of
trade and energy, well, so-so. They were
engaged in apartments, and I say, and there
were cases when it was necessary to drive out.
They say, well, we don't come in like that,
but there were, there was energy. Well, in short,
they have now completely re-qualified their
company in GABA.
I showed a screenshot. They have a company
of 7 people, but they don't need a state of
100-500 people. You understand that you take
money from the renter and you have 10 ,000
applications per year.
10 ,000 applications per year. What else do
you need? Well, that is, you have Avito, you have...
I recommend buying headphones. Here. I use these,
Samsung. They have to pay like this ambassador
of the brand. That's it, it's really cool.
Therefore, well, even my wife and I had a vacation
with my family in Thailand. We bought two
objects in two weeks. Processes can be built remotely.
God bless, as I say, public services and Sberbank
with all the credit cards, right? You do everything remotely. Beauty.
And if your employees pick up the phone right away,
from the first call, you're just unreachable.
You've come a long way in this business. And
if they call you back on that day, you can
call Rolls-Royce.
Thank you very much for taking the time to
come to Moscow often. To you, Muscovites!
I think with time you will move to us, you
will talk on a permanent basis here. I will
be one of those who arrived. Yes. Tell me please,
now we drove, such a question flew by. There
is a federal renter, a pharmacy, and they
can now go for 5 years and 10 years. At the
same time, they will constantly be indexed
every year. How do you think, is it worth
signing a contract for 5 years with a permanent
indexation or still for 10 years with a permanent indexation?
And here again it depends on the strategy.
What do we understand? What is a cool story
when we regulate a certain term? As soon as
the contract approaches the end of the term
of action, we have the opportunity to review
the contract. And our practice shows that
even with a five, we review the contracts
in the direction of increasing the rental flow,
the percentage of turnover and improving the
conditions in favor of ourselves.
Therefore, depending on the strategy, if I took
myself in the horizon of planning with this
object not to sell it for 10 years, I would
end up at 5. Because with a high probability,
after 5 I would index them well.
And if, for example, based on experience,
it turns out that when the five-year period passes,
and the price of the market is slightly higher.
And in this case, it turns out that they have
the opportunity to download it back. And let's
do it on the market, not, say, 600 thousand
rubles a month, but 500. As a rule, our market
does not go down. As a rule. I mean, I don't
see that at least something gets cheaper every year.
That is, it turns out that it is best to make
a five-year contract at this rate. If your
strategy is ten years old, then probably yes.
You will have an additional opportunity. But globally,
what happens? If you subscribe for 10 years,
for 10 years, now we listened to the practice,
there is still an opportunity to increase.
And after five years, you can reconsider the terms,
the contract ends. And if they have a place,
they will hold on to it. And if we approach
from the point of view of its further implementation?
Well, for me, for example, the term is 5-10 years.
Well, if the question is whether it is not
too short for the final investor, 5 years,
I don't know. I'm just not a final investor.
I don't know what he thinks. I don't know.
They buy a five-year one. Listen, let's do this.
Fixed price is signed for 11 months. Do they
buy fixed price objects? They adore it. Federal renter.
11 months unregistered. That's why it all
depends on strategy. One more small question.
Magnit is breaking in with his discounter.
How do you see their attitude towards him?
Well, breaking in is a big word.
Well, in their words. Yes, in their words.
In their words, they break in. In fact, they
crawl in there, as it were, so carefully.
The same thing. Now, a child comes up to you,
kicks you in the foot. Here he kicks you from
all over the house, right? And you think,
daughter, what's wrong with you? So is the magnet.
Well, you see, the revenue. Well, look, Chizhik
opened one and a half thousand stores. The
breaking magnet opened 30.
...............
That's it. I don't believe that they have
at least one chance to win in this segment.
Not a single chance. Absolutely. From my point
of view, everything can change tomorrow. Yard
of 10 will go there. Let's analyze this question constantly.
Who has more money, Magnit or Pyaterka? Can
you roughly say that the plus and minus are
the same? What the hell is there? What the
hell is there?
Plus-minus the same shit. At the same time,
for some reason, the five is developing more
effectively from the point of view of taking
the Chizhikov segment. Let's even call it
a tough discounter. Magnit, my price, began
to develop much earlier. And the earnings,
they have bad earnings. Did you answer, Vitaly?
Well, yes.
Hello, guys. Let's
go somewhere. Scene. Let's go. Come on,
we'll have two bald reflections.
Hello, dear friends. Well, probably so in
a nutshell. My friend Dima, one business club.
We have been engaged in real estate for a long time,
more than 10 years. We collect a bunch of
all our favorite tenants, work with them.
As a result, something turns out. There is
an interesting dynamic in the market now that
a lot of things are bought, a lot of things
are sold, so you are in the right time, in
the right place.
In addition to the fact that we are engaged
in real estate and GABA here in Russia, we
have a company that is engaged in real estate
in Dubai for the second year in a row. How
many apartments have you sold?
But this year, I think, it will be already
in the range of 100. That is, we started literally
from the year before last. In 2022.
Yes, in the summer we will have literally
two years, somewhere in total in the range
of 100 apartments, starting from villas worth
in the range of 10 million dollars, we had
the largest deal. Well, and, accordingly,
the minimum is somewhere at the level of 200
thousand dollars, plus or minus in this segment,
200-250. This gives the opportunity
foreign
If you want to get a residence for 10 years,
then you need to buy real estate for $500 ,000.
The minimum plan is around $200 ,000-250 ,000.
If you buy an apartment for $250 ,000, you
get a residence for 2 years.
What else? Ask questions, and I can answer them.
You are so modest. You even have an association
of rentals of commercial real estate. Yes,
we are now working in the direction of the
association of rentals of commercial real
estate in Russia. We collect a bunch of all
the rentals, solve problems, more precisely,
we analyze their pain. And their only pain
is that there are no normal, high-quality
areas in which they are ready to move in.
And what Dmitry is saying is just...
A huge task of yours is to create these objects.
That is, sometimes we give the tenant some area,
they say, it's all nonsense, goodbye guys,
we won't even consider it. Look at this contour,
we start to draw something there, and here,
in theory, the entrance can be adjusted or
something else. They say, it's interesting,
but let's consider it.
So the point is that in your hands there is
a huge opportunity to highlight some things
for them and they will be happy to enter that
or that object. Or sometimes the manager just
runs fast and did not notice the next two houses.
And for statistics, they need a certain number
of apartments to open in that or that location.
Magazine.
There, where the magnets or five were sitting,
after they leave, people immediately have
the impression that this object has already died.
Life is over. Yes, life is over, that it can
be buried, and that's it. In fact, there are
now a lot of different network organizations
that are happy to sit in these areas and pump
an incredible amount, and it turns out that
everything is interesting. And, as a rule,
this may not even be related to the neighboring
quarter or to the quarter where this store
is located.
or this room. That is, there are a lot of
rooms that are connected there, now it is required,
more precisely, rooms that are connected with Ozon,
Wilders and so on. They have this room, maybe,
as a delivery point, even to the same Ozon.
Therefore, here the market is so interesting
and multifaceted now that, well, as if any
area can be a diamond. It all depends on how
to approach this area.
And as a rule, what problems do we have now?
There are a lot of new buildings, and people
are running in, they bought the first line,
and that's it. And the second one, according
to the perimeter, is considered dead.
In fact, literally a year and a half passes,
and the entire perimeter begins to revive,
and you already see that it is not so, it
is already completely dead. And the price
tag can be very significant. That is, when
you take a calculator, you start to calculate
a lot of things here, and you understand that,
in fact, not everything is as bad as it seems
at first glance. Everyone wants to get such
a pie at the moment. Here it is, red square,
first line, five million, that's it.
But this does not happen. You just need to
understand that this business that you enter,
it is so long-lasting. Now you hear the question,
how long will it take me to succeed? You will
succeed in three years. And when you will
initially navigate this distance, you will succeed.
Yes, it can. But the distance is big. The
real estate is a big distance. The real estate
is a check not in 500 ,000 rubles, not in
200 ,000 rubles. The real estate is a check
of 10 million plus or minus, depending on
the region. Thank you, Vitaly.
Well, actually, in confirmation of the words,
let's give the word to Egor. What did you say?
Look, we'll talk about it. The story, the
five went down, what to do? Will you tell?
Well, the case is already implemented. Yes,
Egor, if you tell, it will be great. Right
now we will finish.
Hello everyone. Tell us. We have the first project,
at least for me, and a case where the five
went down and the room... How many years ago
did it go down? So, we bought it last year,
right? It turns out at the end of 2021. This
is Ufa. Yes, the city of Ufa. The five went
down and the room was just standing. There
were several options, they said they wanted
to break it down.
Then, Chizhik was going there, but he went
to the next room. And so it stood. As a result,
ZOOP TORQ entered this room, which entered
our region. And the first store was in the
former room, the five. They did great. The
circuit entered. They sat down with pleasure
in the unloading area.
Do you remember how good their Contour was?
What did they tell us first? It doesn't suit us.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. We went over the Contour,
drew for them, and in the end we gave them
the most delicious piece. We gave it to them
for good money. What map do we have from them?
470. This is the total. Ah, this is the total,
right? And they have 395. 395, yes. So we
have a total map. Egor has completely collected it.
Yes, there is ZOOP TORQ, plus there is a local grid.
Yadren Baton, right? The bakery. Yes. Yadren
Baton bakery. Yadren Baton bakery. Yadren
Baton bakery.
469. 469. 469 for 320 ZOOP
TORQ and the other 125 square meters were
taken by Yadren Baton. Yes. Well, we got a cost
of up to 30 million for this project and we
implemented it. We bought it in November and
sold it in December. That's the case. Why
is that? Why did Vitaly say that? There was
a five, it was on the open market, nobody
needed it.
How many years it was there, and everyone
traded it, did not know what to do with it.
Again, in our model, who is the first place?
The tenant. Egor collected, we bought. And
sold in a month. This is the answer to the question,
what is your strategy? Our strategy is to
buy for 30 and resell for 45.
This is our strategy. Therefore, we have a range
of such projects, but there are not a thousand
of them. We are hunting for such projects
all over the country. If tomorrow it will
be the working village of Vanino, we will
buy in the working village of Vanino.
Now, interestingly, Chizhik himself hasn't
shared yet. He tells us where Magnitsky is
going to go and says, give us this room. That is,
so much relationship is being built that Chizhik
already needs it. They already extract information
themselves and tell you, give it to us.
And don't forget that despite the fact that
X5 is both 5 and Chizhik, 5 cannot transfer
its objects to Chizhik. These are two different entities.
Even if 5 moves, for example, there is no
such thing that they can launch Chizhik only
through the open market.
This is a fact. This is how a large corporation works.
Although this is nonsense. When I met them,
the managers told me, guys, what are you doing?
You look inside yourself, replace ineffective stores.
They say, no, different teams, different departments,
different management, different internal companies.
This is an opportunity for us.
We're going to eat now, Egor. Thank you very much.
Communicate, ask Egor. You just overtook me.
I have a slide about you. That's it. Food.
Let's go. Marina, how much time do we have
to eat? 30 minutes. 30 minutes to eat. Communicate.
So, what was the logic?
To show you trends?
And how do we make money on these trends?
Let me remind you, the first trend we had
was foreign substitution. The second trend
we had was PVZ-ization, PVZ-ization of Ozon
and Wildberries, and the third one is Aprilization.
5 ,000 pharmacies in April. Can you imagine?
5 ,000 pharmacies. Are they selling cocaine?
I don't know how they are developing so actively.
The fourth trend is going to Siberia, to the
Far East. And the fifth trend I want to show
is 5 ,000 plus people in populated areas.
Look, what I like about small settlements,
especially in conversations with Muscovites,
who say, what kind of liquidity is there?
And since I was a math and physics teacher,
we were taught to talk on the same conceptual
speech apparatus. For example, under the words
on the multiplication table, we understood
the same value. What is liquidity? Is it an
opportunity to sell quickly?
What does it include in the concept of liquidity?
And if you bought a room in the working village
of Vanya for 20 million rubles, and you have
a map of 1.5 million, but it is not liquid
at all. That's it. Therefore, for
me personally, the question of liquidity is
the following. First, again, what strategy
do you have? And the second is the number
of occupancy maps.
And if in MAPs, monthly margin payments, payments,
flows, I have a payback of less than 50, I do
not care about liquidity at all. The only
thing I want to say, also from the experience
of past mistakes, is that it does not apply
to such tough discounters as good prices,
traffic lights, because here in the open market,
pay attention, there is a lot with a payback
of the same good prices, plus or minus 70 MAPs.
A lot. First of all, they are considered differently.
They have two main problems. The first problem
is that they do not compensate for heating costs.
And somewhere in Siberia, a thousand-year-old,
there, the heating cost can be so heavy. Although
some guys build under them, they know how
to do it. Do you know how we use them in practice
in a good sense? We use them as traffic generators.
They generate traffic, and we will fill the
remaining area, and then we will make the economy.
But as a mono-rental, they are mostly not
very good. It is not very effective to make
money on them. The trend is 5 ,000 residential areas.
Let's go.
The population is five small, a five. I forgot
to add a slide, but I'll tell you this on
my fingers. Yes, it costs 60 million, I think
60 million, there are no numbers there, plus
or minus. Oh, wait a minute, 53 million the
object itself costs. The point is that the five,
from which the map there, you see in the photos
how much the map is written there,
Yes. So, what's the point? 40 acres of land,
5 acres plus a couple of local tenants. The
current map is like this. So, what we can
do in the next 2-3 months is to put NTOs.
The map can be made 800-900. 800, if you
don't really try, then 800. The cost will be,
let's say, up to 60 million. 59, we had it there.
But what else is cool? I forgot to add a picture.
This is what Dima Khoropin did, also a resident
of the Academy. You can write to him, ask.
I considered this object for purchase, but now,
while I'm still taking a pause, I'll explain why.
Forty hundredths and there is an opportunity
to put a box of four hundredths next to this building.
The land plot allows everything, and you can
actually do two projects. Disclosure, divide
the land plot, leave one for five, and the
other one, who sits there.
already wants VkusVille. Guys, VkusVille,
5000. Fine. Very much wants VkusVille, ready
to pay plus or minus a thousand for the 400th box.
And wants Chizhik. And wants Chizhik.
In the neighboring one? Yes, in the neighboring one.
The five will flourish. So there are cases
where the five went from 1000 to 600 and sat
right behind the wall. What happened to the
five's profit? Plus 10-15 %?
Magic. Some kind of magic. So what do we get here?
What logic do we include? Again, we need to
look at similar projects. Why did I take a pause now?
We didn't want to go into this project.
I just don't have enough data on the cases
when there was a five, someone sat next to
it in the points of 10 ,000. Well, 5 ,000 plus,
10 ,000 plus, right? That's why I took a little
break and at the same time an alternative.
At the same time, I saw the working village
of Vanino.
So, Dima made this project. I will give you
another example. This is Ruslan. Tomorrow
he will be with us. Look, 2000 people. What
can you buy? This is for checks.
15 million, it's ready, magnet, sits, I won't
tell you the percentage, or, in my opinion,
fix. Well, 190 thousand map for 15 million,
well, yes, two thousand people. This is from
the live, assembled. Further. This is the
Kemerovo region, I don't remember, in my opinion,
Sergey Ponomarev collected this project. 23,
a working fork on the map, like this.
Due to what? Due to the fact that there are
empty spaces, you can fill them up. There
is a network, what is it called? Help me,
it's a good one, I don't know it. Yours. Here
is your Krasnoyarsk network. How many stores
do they have on the network? Well, that is,
this is also a discounter.
And they sit on the square, here is not a thousand,
they have there, like, five hundred?
Here are some examples. We were just working
on this project. I'm afraid to lie, but I think
Chizhok wanted to take their place in this project.
I'm afraid to lie, but I don't think it's important.
But the logic is this. Just numbers. Here
they are, small settlements. How many are there?
Well, 12 ,000. Okay. Numbers can be made like this.
I didn't specifically show how to calculate
annual returns, because everyone counts differently.
I'll tell you right away how I count myself
on a napkin. I don't take taxes into account.
It's important. I don't take it into account.
I consider the dirty map to be the calculation
of all the communal expenses, but before taxes.
Why? Because everyone will decide on taxes themselves.
Someone will want to leave at 1%, someone
will go to the USN, someone will have income
minus expenses. Therefore, taking taxes is
the business of the investor, the business
of the owner. Let's move on. A joke.
Kushva, Chelyabinsk region, Sverdlovsk region,
sorry, Kushva. We wanted to buy this facility,
I'm joking, we wanted to buy it using Sbera's
credit resources. Do you know what Sbera said?
I don't have this settlement in the program.
We can't call an assessor because the program
doesn't allow it, there's no such thing. Can
you imagine? It's a joke, minus, but yeah.
I don't know, by the way, we need to find out.
Look, it can be in the open market, but it
costs 20 million, and the guys traded for 17,
plus agreed on the second floor. On the second floor,
they agreed on the clothes of some operator.
And it turns out that we know that we will
buy it for 17, plus the work of the team,
for example. And we will have a map from Chizhik
200 and from these 100.
Yes, of course, yes. So, if all this was ready,
then the price would not be 18, but 25. This
is the point. So, what else is there? I wanted
to show you what the Academy of Ready-to
-Earn Business is today in numbers. Here it is.
There are small numbers, about 30 worked out projects.
This is what I ask the guys. Not all projects
have been submitted, some are lazy. I say,
I will only consider these projects, which
are in the table. Well, that is, we started
in June of that year, yes, as an academy to develop.
Today we have plus or minus in the work there
are about 50 projects. Here I have 30, which
I wanted to show you in the table. And then,
well, there is the author of the project there,
all this.
There is, further he wanted to say, in conclusion.
This is at the bottom, he is just active,
he gathered a team, he is the author, but,
for example, there is also what I showed,
now I remember, Bastion 10 in, I forgot the city,
Tambov. For example, they collected Chizhik,
two girls initially, and he brought an investor,
and the investor is from our academy, that is,
he convinced.
That is, he did not collect anything at all.
He says, you have money, they have an object,
and I need a million. Sold.
At least he did. I don't know about everyone.
Seryozha earned. He did the main job. Convinced
to buy. This is a joke, but there, of course,
there is also a question about decadastration,
what to divide, how to do it through the general
timbre with Chizhikov, all this filling, decadastration
of the basement, detaching, etc.
Of course. We call each day from 7 to 8 in Moscow.
I will talk about it at the end. What is the point?
We have plus-minus, billion-plus projects,
on average. As a math teacher, I will tell you...
Sorry, I pressed the wrong button. It will
come back. This is the amount, the yellow one,
the first one, billion, 0.98 million, and
so on. And this formula is called the average value.
The average value is the sum of all and the
divisible number of all. The result of what
we have today is YardPlus with 68
map occupancy.
I always say that we are interested in up
to 70 maps. This is what we have at work.
Yes, the numbers are indicated in some future projects,
in the value of the flow, but the point is
that we are taking meters now, perhaps empty,
and they already have a preliminary money flow.
And we create this money flow in this way.
So, let's move on. What is this?
If you see an object in the market and talk
to Chizhik or someone else, he is already
at the stage of discussion, he is ready to
mark a bet.
Of course. What are we discussing here? Do
you like the object? No, no. If he agrees
with the location of the object, he is ready
to say how much he is ready to pay. Of course.
Will it be a 100 % number or will it be a fork?
No, but we are trying to achieve this number
so that it is specific. That is, if he says,
well, I'll take from 500 to 1000 per square,
well, that's not so bad. That is, and after
that the decision is already made? Of course,
yes. Thank you. That is, first the economy,
and then the rent.
I have a question. Do you sell as a ready
-to-buy business after the signing of this facility?
Of course. It depends on the strategy. For example,
we have two categories of investors. The first
category is speculators who grow their capital
thanks to this model. And there are the so
-called finalists. The lazy ones.
Yes, it is close to the sound of the word finished,
so the word ranthier is better. Because when
you say the word finished, many people hear
the word finished. And I understood that it
insults people, so ranthier is a better word.
There is a second category of ranthier. For example,
if we initially work with an investor of the
category of ranthier, he has the opportunity
to buy here cheaper than the market.
And if we work with speculative investors,
the investor buys, arranges himself into property,
we conclude a lease agreement, receive the
first lease payment and resell. Already a cash flow.
That is, our product is, in fact, the lease
agreement of the real estate object. That is,
we sell two papers. Very simple. The first
paper is a lease agreement, the second paper
is a receipt of property rights.
And the salesman is the IP, right? Most often.
Most often, yes. And the question is, these
68 maps already have the rewards of the performers,
right? Yes, yes, yes. That is, on the shore,
in each project, we persuade the work of the team.
I just told the guys, my personal record was
when the object costs 5 million, and my reward
is mine, 5 million.
It can be like that, but why? Well, with the
sale of businesses, 70 % is the cost. Yes,
yes, yes. Therefore, no matter how much, that is,
we collect and discuss this economy in advance.
But the only important thing is that the payment
for the result is always the only thing. Because
a simply purchased object is not the result.
The result of creating a ready-made rental
business is a purchased object, the right
of ownership is registered, the lease agreement
is registered and the first payment is received.
Well, all network providers also pay to their
developers after the first payment. After
the first check, basically. Even after the
first check?
Dmitry, one more question. Residents collect
ready-made business and you often
use the word
I consider the purchase. Yes. That is, do
you buy for yourself or do you mean from the
Academy that the Academy will sell this object?
And so and so. Well, that is, there is capital
that I manage. Well, that is, I say, today
the size of free capital in rubles, which
I have in the management, does not lie on
my account, but is in the management. What
does it mean? What if tomorrow I say to buy
this for 50 million, we will buy it tomorrow?
The owner of this capital is the final investor,
a specific person. And the amount of money
that I have today in this management is about
1-2 billion, plus or minus. That is, I tell
the guys, I will provide you with financing,
you do not need to run to look for investors,
collect the project. And when I say, I am considering,
I mean that I, as a person managing capital,
make all decisions here.
Who to pay, how much to allocate, to what
amount to go, and so on and so forth. That is,
I manage the capital of private investors.
Do you often refuse? That is, let's say your
guys tried, worked hard, and you say, no,
I will not buy it, and no one buys it. In
the words tried and worked hard, there are
no numbers.
And we will speak in different languages until
we talk about numbers and the methodology
of numbers calculation.
There is no such thing as tried, there is
no such thing as good. There is a number.
Or numbers. And the question was not in this.
The question is in this. Because what does
it mean, tried? He tried, he says, take an object,
it is up to 70 MAP, as you asked. I say, well,
you have an agent, a good price. It will not
be resold in the market for 90, it will be
resold for 70 as well. But he tried.
Yes, I can say this, again, translating into
the language of conversion, that is, in numbers.
My conversion remains unchanged for the last
10 years, it is about 7%. What does it mean?
That from such worked objects, they are worked out,
collected according to a certain methodology,
blah-blah-blah-blah, that is, that's it,
I can say, we take into consideration. From
those taken into consideration by the worked
out projects, my personal conversion is around 7%.
That is, out of 100 worked out, that is, here,
well, that is, you can multiply 30 by 7%,
we get there 2 and 1, right? That is, out
of these two, well, I'll take it. Here.
And the rest will buy others with a different strategy,
not as aggressive as mine, either for an investor
from the Rantie category, or with their own capital,
or something else. But will all these 30 be bought?
Or is it also up to you? I don't know, it depends.
But the same Chizhik in Tambov was not needed
by anyone until Sergey Ponomarev, the current coach,
came and convinced him that he had the object,
he had the money,
I want a million from this. It is important
that it is necessary to sell. You sent
a link and a person says, oh, Dima, where
to pay? Well, the sale does not happen the
same way. There is no such thing that I will
now send this table to my guys. They say,
Dima, check the account, there is a billion.
No, of course not. Guys, you have to sell it.
It's a job too. Of course. So you won't buy
everything that is on Avito now? Why? We
had a room on Avito in Ufa. No, I don't mean
a room. I mean a ready-made business that sells.
No, no, no. Why? But if, for example, this
business is sold with a buy-in rate of 100 MAP,
and the guys trade it,
up to 70 % and we resell it for 90-10 % to
the market, we buy it. We buy everything from
Avito and sell it on Avito. Look,
I'll talk at the end about what I'm striving for.
I'm striving for a thousand deals a year.
Well, 1 ,000 divided by 365, you get the average value,
multiply by the number of days. I will talk
about it at the end. Look, why? I wanted to
take into account the deals, but I see, for example,
I have investors, they bought an object from me,
they say, Dima, please do not advertise.
Well, for a number of reasons. Well, you know,
I'll tell you now to make two, and you'll say,
oh, shit, it doesn't work. Well, here I realized that,
as my wife says, happiness loves silence.
So, like, how much money do you have in your pocket?
Well, there is something. Therefore, I want
to come so that we, as a community, make a thousand
deals a year.
Will it work out this year? There is a possibility
that it will work out. Will it work out next year?
Most likely it will be much more. That's why
I want to talk about it. And I realized that
when I started to set goals in money, I don't
know why, maybe psychologists will answer this,
it doesn't work at all.
As soon as you set a goal in some other things
that will lead to money, some kind of magic
happens and it starts to work. Therefore,
I understand that a thousand deals per year
will lead me to my goal. To all communities.
And how will it be inside? Plus, again, look,
I'll tell you. For example, now we are buying Bashkortostan.
We bought one object. Is this a deal?
But we didn't earn at the time of purchase.
This is a deal. Next, we cadastrated it and
sold two. Are these two deals? Two deals.
That is, it turns out three deals? So to count?
That is, I'm always like a nerd, you know,
what is the methodology of calculation of
deals and what do we mean by the word deal?
And if we rented to some federal renter, but
did not sell, did not buy, and the investor
paid us a million for this deal? Fine.
That is, then, if we speak in this language,
then a thousand deals. This is the goal. That's
why I always dig into it, many people don't
like it, to understand equally. Because, again,
the question is, what kind of liquidity is there?
I say, good. That's it, I say like, that's
the kind of liquidity. And what does it mean
in numbers? That's the question. No? Yes. Yes.
I have such a loud, fashionable one. Moscow
was the only one who saw it. That is, we have
mostly investors, they don't like a separate building.
You said you don't take into account taxes
on land, on cadastral, these crazy ones that
can be higher in price. With whom I have come across,
they don't like a separate building, they
are looking for all the first floors of residential buildings,
and there you don't really walk around like this.
The land to build, to cadastrate.
Very simple. I don't work in Moscow. How
do you work from Moscow?
I will give an example. My first personal
deal was with the Muscovites, who bought a small settlement,
specifically 7 ,000 people, the city of Tatishevo,
a closed military city in the Saratov region.
I myself bought a room at the Sberbank. At
that time, Sberbank, I don't know how it is now,
under internal regulations, implemented property
worth up to 10 million without trade.
They couldn't reject the internal regulations.
We bought this room for 5.5 million, 5.6 million.
Sberbank was left with the so-called return rent.
That is, they occupied two floors, moved to
the first floor. On the second floor, my guys
put world judges. And it turned out MAP, in
my opinion, 150 thousand rubles. 146, 147,
something like that, plus or minus. And then
my guys from Moscow bought it for 9.5 million.
And I ask them, guys, what the hell?
Why? You are Muscovites. And they told me
such phrases, which I always repeat. They say,
Dima, what will I buy for 10 million in Moscow?
They said, I won't even buy a tambourine from
the five. A rug, maybe, from the five, the
entry one. This is the first. And the second
one says, you sell me 15 % of the revenue.
Well, that is, there was an equivalent of
15 years. They say, in Moscow I will buy the
ninth maximum.
And so the check is lower, he says, yes, I will
spend 1 % of the revenue on local management.
I will have 14%. But this is still one and
a half times higher. And the entry ticket
is five times lower. Therefore, according
to the totality of these factors, Muscovites
buy regions. Let's see.
Where? This one? Which one?
It's so small there.
To be honest, I don't know. There was something
in Moscow. Yes,
a few. Yes, yes, yes.
Well, then we can even, for example, if it's interesting,
these are all working links, I'll just show you,
there is an author, well, you can talk, I don't know.
I usually, as soon as it comes to Moscow and
the Moscow region, I immediately have an intuition
for this, but attention, so to speak.
Moscow. And the district working village of Vanin.
Let's go. So, look, this strategy is such
that I just wanted to show that the trend,
well, for us, the trend for people who are
creating a ready-made retail business is
to go to the regions. Dmitry, may I ask a question?
Yes, of course. I don't see who.
Dmitry, have you already had any projects
in Lugansk, Donetsk, Crimea, Kherson?
I only have one piece of information. The
information is that all networks are interested
in one thing, and the second is that I only
have cases with people who are familiar with Promsvyazbank.
Promsvyazbank has paid 1200-1300 rubles per
square meter on the market. That's it. I don't
have any more data. So, all networks are interested.
The potential is huge. I think that this is
one of the directions similar to Siberia and
the Far East. One of them. A little later,
of course. A little later. Yes, of course.
Tell me, how do you manage to make repairs
on remote areas in small towns? I don't do it,
it is done by tenants, or people who want
to make money on it. What about rescheduling
and so on? In any settlement there are people
who are also cadasters, engineers, who are
specialists in this area. We find such people
and pay their services.
Okay. And another question. What can we do
about the indexation of the rental fee? Practice.
Practice. It depends on several factors. Factor
number one. How much does the store pump?
This is a new object, we don't know yet.
And how are we going to index? Like, we will
sign a new contract. The lease agreement,
the lease agreement, some number, yes, it
is good to index it somehow. Sign the possibility
of indexing? Yes. Or not at all? Very practically.
The probability is to aim for zero. That's
how it is. Yes.
So, there is only a percentage of the profit?
Yes. Again, I will return to the strategy.
What do we want? What strategy do we work with?
I have projects, for example, the guys in
Samara did, planted both traffic lights and
a lighthouse, but on a fixed amount, not on
a percentage. Why? Because the task was to
sell for a year, and they only go to the standard
for a year.
That's why the fix is less than the map would
be in a year. But the strategy was different.
So here, what is the strategy? Maybe we will
pull the fix, but we will sell it in a month.
If the contract is for 30 years, then all
this strategy, you will have to resell it.
Of course. And I have one strategy, we resell everything.
Always. Thank you. Therefore.
Are the contracts with the federals being corrected?
They are not being corrected at all. We will
not offer our form of five, no matter how
we want. What about the DOP agreement? The DOPs,
of course, are being registered. Another important
point is that we, as lenders, can influence
the turnover and the turnover of goods.
We can influence them. For example, we can
help them to make concessions, to install
navigational shields, etc. We can do it. There
was a practice, not mine, but of my partners
from Kazan. They raised from 4.5
% to 7 % of the turnover in the same facility.
And the MAP from the same store increased
from 900 thousand to 2.1 or 2.3 million.
In two years.
One and the same object. That is, is it possible?
It is possible. If we want to increase profitability.
But there should be an attachment to the turnover.
Then yes. And so to influence, but in practice.
Oh, April is appearing. For 30 years, I say,
somehow you need to offer him to stay forever.
It is interesting, in general, in legal, well,
as it were, there is a restriction that, like,
you can't stay 100 years longer.
Or as a long-term agreement, less than one year.
So here, 99 years. But the 30-year agreement
with April, I did not see it. They promote them.
I saw it too. Yes, so normal practice. So,
let's move on. So, what I wanted to tell you.
Oh, Egor.
This is Egor. This is his phone. And this
is Egor, in fact. You can write to Egor,
maybe. Since we have guys from Yekaterinburg,
we are now registering a contract with a federal
renter there, and the facility is not in open access,
you can also earn. We can sell it, for example,
not for 55, but for 50. Can we, Egor? We can.
Well, what's the point? I'll tell you about Egor.
Egor and Volodya worked together in co-authorship.
We have such a thing. Inside the Academy we
call it the Department of Trade. Do you know
how the Department of Trade works?
Egor calls the facility, inquires, receives information.
Egor calls again tomorrow, the day after tomorrow.
He says, oh, you have reached the technical passport,
you have reached the receipt. Oh, and there
is also a contract on electricity. Egor calls
for a week, communicates. At the end of the wire,
the realtor has already spent money from this facility,
which he has not yet earned. And then Egor
calls an indecently low price.
It's crazy. The object costs, I don't know,
50 million. Egor says, I understand everything,
30. He goes on a walking erotic hike once again.
Two days later, Andrey calls. He
asks for a receipt, a technical passport.
He asks for this, this, this. And offers 35.
He can also be sent to the first erotic campaign,
but here it turns out that the realtor says
to the owner, listen, brother, the market
has fallen, look, and
now for 30 offers from Egor he
is not such a bad person.
Well, I'm exaggerating, of course, but that's
the logic. That's the logic. That's why any
object and project is interesting, the question
is the price. The price of the question. That's why,
well, actually, Egor is co-authored. Here
is such a case. Damn, I was in a hurry. The
only thing they told me today is that someone
drove into the facade, right? A gift. Well,
okay, let's replace the glass package.
Here, the guys say, imagine, there should
be a kindergarten, in general, the whole building,
right? And also there is a lot of work done,
of course, there are these loading zones,
this is all, but the resume is like that.
There are also secret objects, I just quickly
scroll through them, like this, but anyway,
we won't, in short.
What do I like about such projects? Egor is
the author. As he suggested, we immediately
hooked up. In general, what is the point?
Sber remains in reverse rental. And when
do they need to send money? In 270 days? Sber.
You buy there. Sber shrinks, dries up.
And you pay him in 270 days. Cool.
In general, it's kind of interesting. Well,
in short, what is the point? According to
the classics, such projects were just made.
I even gave you an example in this Tatishevo.
The same thing. Sber also shrunk, dried up,
remained in the so-called return on rent.
And there is just an economy. They are being done,
they are being built. Furnaces for renters
are being built, a future forecast map is
being built. Understanding who will be the renter,
we went to buy. Well, this is what we are
doing now. So, what is this? Oh, I wanted
to show you.
The guys asked me what's going on inside the academy.
Since that year, I came up with the idea,
now there are fashion challenges. Some people
are on a diet, some are on something else.
I had a challenge a year without alcohol with
a friend. God bless his health.
And he, and I, and everything is fine. In general,
some kind of shit does not work. Well, okay,
everyone has a different view on this account.
What is the point? I think, let's do a challenge,
in short, 60 days of GAP. We will call the
guys every day, every day for an hour to communicate,
at least to discuss everything. Well, in short,
it has grown so much. In general, we did this challenge,
and since we are constantly finishing, improving
our training program,
We've been communicating for an hour now,
then the girls from the Academy team are transcribing
this text, transcribing the voice into text,
and all this is on the platform, so you can
read it, you can watch it, and so on. And
our challenge has now grown to 366 days of GAP.
That is, every day now, we started on January 1,
from 7 to 8 in Moscow, we call each other
and discuss objects, projects, tenants, GAP
-GAP-GAP every day.
and so on. We communicate every day. And I realized
that the information here is so unique and
new and can be outdated, that this topic gives
us very cool. That is, we discussed today
on the air. Now I'll show you. I wanted to say,
they asked me, by the way, what is your goal?
One of the guys asked. Today, what is my goal?
Since I'm really enjoying the fact that we
have transferred all the business processes online,
That is, I have a work table, this is the phone.
Even the guys are laughing, I don't have a laptop
of my own. My wife has one, I sometimes take
it to use. And everything is in the phone.
Everything is built in the cart, we broadcast,
send everything to the platform and so on.
What is the goal? What do I want in general?
I want to collect such pictures from the community
of people.
who understand this topic, who understand
that there are 15 KBs, who understand that
there is money here. Here it is normal to
have money, here there is an opportunity to
make your own capital and make money on it.
Therefore, I want to build such a community
of people in which we earn together.
I understand why it didn't work in offline
because the costs were huge. I had one year
of marketing budget for Avid and I spent 60
million rubles. Rubles. Damn. I just looked
how much I earned in a year.
And it turns out that Avito sometimes even
earned me more. I thought to myself, fuck it.
And I really thought about how to get rid
of these costs. And it turns out that now,
thanks to online, there is an opportunity
to grow as a community and already buy from
Kaliningrad to Vladivostok. So what do I want?
Here I answer the question. I didn't lie,
I was preparing. 1 ,000 transactions per year.
When will it be? This year I really, really
want to. I understand that most likely it
will not work. Most likely it will not work.
But still, damn, three deals. And now I will
say so. Now the normal working speed, which
we digest, it's two deals a week, it's comfortable.
It's straight at all, as it were, on easy,
on light, it's straight completely okay. Next,
it will be necessary to somehow, there, already
something else, there, reassemble. That is,
two deals a week, there, okay. It's okay,
it works. So.
And in general, when I was thinking what I want,
I will show you now, I respect Fedor Ovchinnikov
very much, I met him personally 10 years ago,
he came to Samara, we had a business party-conference,
and we were still asking the guys, Fedor,
what company do you have? Fedor says, I have
an IT company, Ovchinnikov, Dodo Pizza.
We were like, Fedor, you're making pizza,
but you must have smoked something with your
active car. An IT company on pizza? You're
having fun, right? What happened now, right?
Dodo IS. Dodo is an IT company. An IT company.
Yeah. Microphone, yeah. Microphone.
Yeah. One second.
Guys can't hear us online. You often say,
how much does the store pump? How do you know that?
I always answer this question when they ask,
where do you get the revenue data? I answer
with the words of my younger daughter, from
the camel.
I see. Thank you for the question. Wait, I have
a second one. Please. If it's the same, it
will be the same. We work from Nizhny Novgorod.
We came with my partner. We work with companies
in Bristol. The company in Bristol, Constanta,
always puts a map, as you call it, a rental fee.
Is it possible to make a contract with them?
No. Excellent. And then the last question.
When you sign contracts for repair, for service
of buildings, who takes responsibility for themselves?
We do everything that can be done for the tenants.
The only thing is that they are trying to
put a fire on us now. So, everything that
can be done, the task is to hang and remove
all responsibility. So, you do everything
according to the personal agreement? Of course,
yes. Thank you. That's it. By the way, Bristol
very often replaces KB, at least in Murmansk.
They joined a couple of years ago. They are
Mercury Group. But Bristol's politics is not
like KGB's. On the one hand, they joined.
On the other hand, they quarreled. Either
they don't open the door, or they start opening
the door. About redoing the contract.
Our contract will end in red and white and
we realized that it is very difficult to sign
with them. And every time they impose a new contract.
Because it is clear that they have some precedent
in Russia. They start asking for some additional documents.
Here they asked me to bring a certificate
from the registry office that I am not married.
That is, no one believes me. And what for?
And about redoing the contract. The contract
can be redone when there is a prolongation.
Yes, yes. And then, probably, with such lenders
as Red and White Bristol, it is advisable
to terminate the contract not for 10 years,
but for 5. Absolutely right. As little as possible.
Yes, that is, it is possible to raise the
rent and add additional conditions. That is,
in the new contract, we signed that we overtaxed
the капremont on them, then the maintenance,
and obliged to terminate all direct contracts.
And before that it was on the property, right?
Yes, everything was different. That's why
when you finish the contract, they look at
the earnings dynamics and understand that
the place is pumped up. And they just put
these new things into their finmodelka and look.
Well, the finmodelka will grow. That is, for
2-3 months, for half a year, you need to
start going to negotiations with them, write
down all the requirements, ask for as much
rent as possible.
Yes, Sasha Ilyin from Ufa told his case about Ufa.
He also signed a contract three years before
the end of his term. Yes, Yegor, three years,
don't you remember? Sasha Ilyin. He told it
on the air. He has a five-year contract in Ufa.
And three years before the end of his term,
they sent him a proposal. They sent
a proposal, yes, and rental vacations.
We are making a new format. Give us half a year
of rental vacations or some discount. We are
making a new format with coffee and bakeries.
Sasha said, okay, no problem. I suggest you
increase the contract by 0.5%. Okay, but
they began to push him to resume for another
10 or 15 years. I wanted to convey the idea
that he was specifically threatened.
What did they threaten him with? Here is a joke.
He has a letter, but it is now rescheduled.
He asked not to show it, but he wrote it in text,
and showed me the letter. I wrote him a five.
If you do not agree with these conditions,
then we will end the action of the alcohol license,
and we will not extend the alcohol license,
and the store will trade less, and you will
earn more. Less. Do you understand?
Who is this person? Are you immortal
or what? Show this letter to the leadership
of the five, where they tell you, we will
bury you, we will bury the store, but you
will be punished.
That's why I don't communicate with developers.
It's a separate business process, not my story.
Guys, how many stores do you have? 14, 15,
12? The fastest growing network among alcohol
retailers in Russia.
Well, that's it. It changes every day. So,
what have I skipped? Oh, look, I'll explain why.
What is this? This is a slide. This is the
top 100 of federal rentals. Top 100. Top 100.
Look, we talked about X5, Magnit,
and about those three, four, five. There
are also these.
97, 95. And they also need something, damn it.
If you try to calculate, I tried, and
I try, and I calculate, I calculated that
a day in Russia opens 200 stores every day.
200 every day. This is what I ran up to about
30 of these.
Top 30. And then I spit it out, and I think,
that's enough work. What I mean by
this conversation is that, look,
Why do I want to make an IT
company based on a ready-made rental business?
Because I see a market here, we talked about it,
100 lenders, top 100, they need it, and there
is a great marginality within one transaction.
There is a very large marginality. That is,
there is money there. And that's how the infrastructure
of the X5 business structure looks like today.
You can see it in the numbers in the stores.
This is, again, from their official data,
21 ,308 5s.
Look, it's so interesting, I don't know why,
but according to my calculations, this number
doesn't correspond to the reality of 391.
It's higher. I don't get it. I'll show you
a picture. It's not true. This one. I mean,
their average area is not 295, or they use
the wrong term, average area.
That's it. I'm sorry, I didn't see that. Yes,
they even have two numbers in the revenue report.
General and TZ, the trading hall. Therefore,
the trading hall, yes. Therefore, here is
a confirmation of that. Again, they turned
out to be smarter than me. Naturally. What
is the point? Why won't Chizhik open at 300 meters?
Because only the trading hall is 295. Therefore,
the counter is 400. That's why.
There is a question. Recently I learned that
the networks are starting to complain that
the contracts in which they have a percentage
of revenue, they lead to a different order
of calculation. Accordingly, you will not
see this revenue and your profitability will
fall in stores.
Let me explain what it means to introduce
the wrong order of accounts. We read the lease
agreement carefully. The sale of online
orders is not included in the lease. And there
are a number of other positions. That is,
if a courier arrives and orders a delivery
from the five, the check will be broken in
this store, but this delivery will not be
included in the lease. And this is a very
tricky trick.
There they are not even couriers, they are
buyers who come with their feet, forcing,
relatively speaking, to go to the neighboring
cash register,
But it's different, I mean it's not through
this one, but through online, for example,
a sale is coming and there is a different face.
Yes, well, how many, but I have not met this,
but there is no such thing. I was told this
just recently. Well, they said. They just
started practicing it. I believe in two things here.
The first thing is the lease agreement, and
the second thing, where it is registered,
is personal practice. So, well, rumors.
According to the rumors, our ruler has long died.
This is his mummified body. Such rumors
also go around. I don't believe in rumors.
Let's move on. So, what I wanted to tell you is,
again, data, figures. What do I want? Why
did I say about the IT company? By the way,
the five-digit number is a quarter.
25 years old. Five years old. I think I published
it on the channel. Have you seen the video
about Chizhik? Chizhik congratulates the five
-year-old. Handsome. Look, what year is it?
1999, right? There is a book, by the way,
I haven't finished reading it. It's called
Civilization X5.
And there, right at the base of the five,
there is a crossroads. At first, a crossroads
appeared and arose. It even describes the
situation when Alla Borisovna Pugacheva bought
these Pampers for Presnyakov in the crossroads.
Something like that. Cool, in short. It's
interesting how trade in Russia was born there.
And you know what? These trends are just,
roughly speaking, retail from Moscow was born.
And this is the same. Why the working village
of Vanino?
Yes, because there, when the five opened with coffee,
it's a holiday. Do you understand? I really
want you to visit different regions, especially
the Muscovites, my beloved Muscovites. When
we said to Nina, and we want to see how Skolkovo is,
where our friends live. What did the Muscovites say?
Well, it's behind the MCAD.
I said, are you crazy? Zamkada, damn it. We
have friends from Ekiva, I say, Zamkada.
All right. So, these are the five-digit numbers.
By the way, for those who didn't know, there
are contacts of developers on the official
website of the five-digit number. There are
their e-mails. Please, write, call.
And it is also important, if you listen to
the interview of this Ilya Kupson, who is
in charge of Chizhik, he has many interviews
with himself. He says, how to start a new interaction?
Go to the official website, leave a request
and don't wait for feedback.
Vladimir Vannina.
How do you do it? Do you have a schedule?
And in the morning? Yes. Do you have a sauna
in the morning too? A sauna? You had one,
you wrote. Today we won't make a call because
I have a sauna with my friends. Was it in
the morning from 7 a.m. to 8 a.m.? Or in
the evening? Maybe. So you have a call from
7 a.m. to 8 a.m. during the training? We
go to the sauna for 10 hours, yes, for 10 hours.
So you have a call from 7 a.m. to 8 a.m.
during the training? Yes, yes. First question,
first question. Do you need to ride around
the country to see these objects in real life?
Yes, on Zolotaya Kolesnitsa, right from Moscow.
You're tying a three. Distant deals are being made.
What kind of wheel is this?
How do you know if the object is interesting
or not? You have to go and look at it. Let's
look at it. I had 112 flights in one year.
I flew in different cities 112 times. Not
in this one, but in the previous one. I also thought...
I buy an object for my money, for investors' money.
I have to look at it. How else can I buy it?
Let's look at it. You came to look at the object.
to Moscow, to Moscow, to Vanina, to Petina,
to Balashov, it doesn't matter, right? What
will you have left after you watch? A photo,
right? Most likely, and a video. And why can't
you watch a photo and a video while sitting
at home? Why? I ask myself a question after
112 flights in a year. And then it came to me,
you can. Fuck, you can.
Well, that is, what should I look at it? Well,
there are photos and videos, there are Yandex Panoramas,
there are made over the years. You can hire
a person from Avito for 300 rubles and he
will take a picture, he will come with the
same phone, he will shoot like this, and that's it.
Why? And most importantly, look, in our business model,
we do not buy an object. I don't need an object.
I need a cash flow from the object. Who generates
the cash flow? The tenant. Therefore, let
the tenant go, look, measure, do repairs,
solve questions. He needs it, not me. It feels
purple to me. Therefore, I don't go to Kolesnitsa
from Moscow, but to remote online deals.
God bless Sberbank, credit form of accounts,
remote transactions. You come to Sberbank
in Moscow, believe me, most likely there is
also Sberbank in Vanina. Most likely. The
seller goes there, you go there. The money
is on the account, the right has been transferred,
the seller has received the money. That's it.
And you looked at the phone.
Before that, it seemed to be a simple thing,
but it took me 10 years to understand it.
Really, it's so stupid. I used to drive the
same way, with my hands and feet, and now,
well, why? The technology has stepped in again.
Distance trading.
God bless him. We remember the basic principle.
Never work with assholes. Well, let it be.
Does it happen? It happens. I have guys from
the Caucasus. They will come. Then the guys say,
let's go, I'll show you the forest. There
is a squirrel sitting in a hollow. Does it happen?
Of course it happens. We just don't work with
such comrades. That's it. We have a long strategy.
We've been in this market for a long time.
So if someone wants to make a one-time action
and make money on it, like I had a case in Samara,
a developer opened, who knows Samara, in Yelunovskaya,
28-30, such a 33-story building, Mordor Tower,
I even had an apartment on the 29th floor.
A five opened in the place where, as you understand,
the total area is 2000 square meters. A five.
The developer who opened this five, I'm not
kidding now, he left for Bali and lived there
for two years. I'm answering. You see how.
And when it was opened, well, that is, there
was such a thing. And the best in terms of revenue?
Really? I'll see.
I don't want to surprise you, but I have a new
format for Kuybyshev's Revolution Square.
They wanted to buy it. People come and say,
Dima, who is walking here? I look at my hand
and it's just awesome. So, I have no doubt.
Yes, Marin?
I have an online question. Eduard Galinchenko asks,
how do you arrange the relationship with the
buyer or the investor who acquires the services
for the creation of the GAP? Each stage is
paid separately. You bought the premises,
paid for the purchase, the tenant came in,
paid for this service, sold the premises to
the tenant, paid again.
The person asked a question and answered him.
He says, I'm good, I do it like this. Look,
we have a principle, there is a basic payment
for the result. The result of creating a ready
-made rental business for me is the transfer
of ownership rights. The investor has passed
the right. Second, the lease agreement is registered.
Third, the payment is completed, which means
that we have entered the accounting register
for payment. After these factors, the reward
is paid. That's it.
Yaroslav asks, how long will the demand for
Gabba last? Until March 27th,
2026. That's crazy. How long?
There is a demand. I don't know how long.
How long? I don't know. Another question.
You have a lot of experience. For a beginner,
a remote selection is a result of a loss of
money from an unsuccessful location.
And? What to do? To study. Well,
what to do, I don't know. Well, such interesting questions.
And I realized now that, again, from the experience
of working in different business clubs, being
in different business clubs, the ability to
formulate a question is half the answer. Well,
that is, for a novice, he says, it depends.
Well, what does it depend on? You have the
opportunity to make a million from one transaction.
Why? Because not everyone wants it.
We're not talking about success, we're not
talking about breathing. No, this is work,
you have to work hard. It's not going to work out.
Marina, who said at the training session that
a woman went to a fitness club to the court,
bought an appointment and applied because
she didn't lose weight but didn't go? They
told me, yes.
The real story is in the website. I mean,
I bought it. What the hell? I bought the subscription.
But that's how it is here. Are there risks?
There are. And there are opportunities. Again,
this is a reference to training in the academy,
because our beginners are being trained. And
there come people who have never done it,
but who are interested in the topic and who
understand that in a competent environment
it is faster to do it.
Again, I share my practice. I can't teach
someone's life. No, I have a practice of more
than 3 ,000 projects in the field of ready
-to-buy business in the regions of Russia.
That's all. This is my daily practice. I can
be useful in this. In something else, but
probably hardly. And why the community? Because
there is so much information.
I don't want to be like Ildar.
I'm a cool guy, I study a lot, but I don't
want to be like Eldar. That's why it's a different
business model. And here, by combining online learning,
interaction, and formed demand and number
of applications from federal lenders, which
generate a cash flow, there is an opportunity.
Who? I don't see.
I had a friend, he was building, he
was buying land and he was negotiating and building.
Does it work now? It works. Very cool. We
have guys who are building. I just don't like construction.
First of all, I don't know how to build. It's
a separate skill, a separate competence of construction.
Secondly, it's a long cycle. Well, you can't
build it in three months from an even field.
Still, it's 6-9 months. Well, don't go to
the money, 6-9 months. Thirdly,
what is construction? It's an administrative resource.
Subdivision of communication, signing of contracts,
and so on. Administrative resource is an immeasurable thing.
Today it is here, tomorrow it is not. Today
subdivision of communication costs 1 million,
tomorrow it is 2. Therefore, the history of
construction for me does not have a scale.
We have guys who build, like Vanya Zheltanogov,
in Moscow, in Ramensk. He has 20 or
30 maps of occupancy. He doesn't build if
the occupancy is more than 50 maps. Do we
have money there? Yes, definitely. It's a lot
of work, a new object, interesting for potential
investors and so on. I just don't know how
to do it. It's not up to me. But I think the
potential is huge.
Do you put boxes? Who has a question? Yes,
I have a question. You said that we
have a selection of remote objects and then
the network operator goes there and, of course,
we have a solution for it and a purchase goes
under it. Yes.
Because of my practical experience in this
field in Moscow, I worked and invested. The
question is that sometimes an object is found here,
you went there yourself, although you can
actually go there yourself. After some time,
you understand why you need to go there. A developer
goes there, looks, it seems to be good, the
development begins, then the object disappears
in a wonderful way.
It disappears, because people already have
their own investors, whom we have dedicated,
we are great. I had such an
experience myself, when the object was taken away.
How do you have some mechanisms here? What
is your experience? Have you had it or not?
That is, such a cut. Because, as I understood,
the work is online. What tools do you have here?
The key thing I've heard is about Moscow.
The further away from Moscow, the less such
wonderful stories. That's it. So why is that?
Because they say to me, why Moscow? It's a bloody ocean.
You do this job, right? They say, no, it's
not interesting. In a month you go, the five opened.
How is that? Right? Well, there's just competition.
Mathematically, there's more competition.
And in the working village of Vannino, in
the Khabarovsk region, where this developer
was sent, there is no competition. That's it.
So how to win? First of all, there is, excuse me,
a jerk. Who had the communication, who broke these,
pardon me, boyish agreements. And secondly,
if not him, then the second one.
This project will go down. We have tried so
many times to approach Kutuzov, Napoleon to Moscow.
Why? What is the point? Pricing
is lower, competition is lower, income from
rent is higher, demand is also there.
That's all. Because I have cognitive dissonance
only on this question. Everything else I go
along and across. I tell cases. Developers
bring such objects themselves. A developer comes,
brings, you know, commission. How did they
bring it to me? A developer of a traffic light.
Diman went to Serbia to open traffic lights.
Do you know that traffic lights are open in Serbia?
And the second one, Sasha, went to China to
open traffic lights. To China. The traffic
lights under the brand MERI are open in Serbia,
in China and in some other countries. I won't
lie now. Guys, we write each other off. I say,
where is he sending photos? This is in China,
this is in Serbia. So, the guys bring it themselves
and say, Dima, here is the object.
We sit down, the rate of the map is such that
the owners have no money for repairs. Take it.
There is a reverse situation. Therefore, Moscow
is not Russia, Russia is a region.
I have a microphone in my hands. Could you
explain a little more about your vision, although
this is not a vision, but a practical means
of work. If you are a member of the Academy inside,
what do you get here? Both the search engine
and the one who signs this contract.
So, you are an outsourcing business unit,
but a dense outsourcing within the community,
right? Yes. You have all the competences in
the process of work, and then you have different
variations of earnings, right? Absolutely.
I have no task.
It's not like I found something under Volgograd
and you got a fix for it. No. We
just communicate and think how to make money
together on some adult positions in relation
to each other.
Yes. I mean, we agreed on the bank how much
money we will make from this project. I mean,
I have Yard financing. I need projects in
such criteria of profitability. I will name
you a price for which this project is interesting.
That's all. And then, for example, you have options.
What can make any project interesting? We
can reduce the entry point and increase the
exit point. The entry point is the cost, the
exit point is the rental flow.
We influence two factors. Entry and exit.
Rent plus, purchase minus. That's it. You
can trade, you can negotiate with a developer,
you can build relationships, you can create
0.5, 0.6, 0.7. There are different options.
You can communicate with all communities.
The task is not to be a plug in every transaction.
You can't pull it off. When I was thinking,
sorting, analyzing business models, I realized
that you need to make something here.
But it's not classic. We didn't open an OOO,
we didn't call it floors, but elevators or
something else, and we went. No, we're going
to the same competitive field, the realtor's field.
Marginality of the realtor's business in Russia
is 7%. It's bullshit, not business.
That is, if you count all the costs and keep
the staff in the state and so on and so forth,
it is 7 % maximum. But still, the starting
point here, if we speak, is the search for objects,
right? No, no, no, and once again no. The
starting point here is the money flow generator,
this is the tenant. Dmitry, I understand,
but nevertheless, we start the work with the
fact that we need objects. No.
That's why the first ones... Why do they say,
guys, it will work in three months? First,
you need to change your thinking. Thinking.
Because everyone says, I have an object.
No, the object that will correspond to the
FIN model. The numbers are all... The FIN
model that will be generated by the tenant
and the tenant in the first place. Therefore,
in any FIN model, the object will be somewhere there.
It doesn't matter. The tenant first. First,
the money flow, under which we will adjust,
including mathematics. In Russia, there are
more than a million commercial real estate
objects that are suitable for the technical
task of the top 100 federal tenants.
One way or another. More than a million. And
when we start working from a number to a million,
we have less applications.
We, from the point of view of probability theory,
drop the chances of success to the ground.
And when we go from applications and select
a million objects, we have changed places.
And our model is not built that way, not at all.
And it's good that you ask such a question now,
because I understand that we can still give value,
even if we change our thinking. Not an object.
I'm not interested in any object. For me,
an object is an intermediate instance of capital growth.
That's clear. Maybe I'm asking the wrong question.
The point is that we have practically cut
off the work. Let's imagine that there are
10 of us in the group. We need to start making money.
Do we need any objects? No.
Explain, please. From the point of view of
the Finnish model, of course, it is clear
that we are starting from the cash flow, from
the end. We are starting to build a funnel
for tenants. What is
a funnel for tenants?
And this is a built-in marketing communication,
which aims to attract the attention of the
federal tenant in a given settlement, district,
taking into account the understanding of his
development program, the technical task he needs,
and so on, with the possibility of expanding
the technical task. And then that's it, here
the brain has already flown. Not from the object,
not from the object, but from the funnel to
the tenant. Just like that, no other way.
Are you making a Mavrodi out of me now? No,
of course not. But what guarantees? Look,
when someone asks me about guarantees, I always answer,
answer and will answer that I can give you
one guarantee. We will all die.
Guaranteed. I answer. Checked. Proven. In
the rest of the world, there are no guarantees.
And there can't be. This is the most honest
and mature position for me. But there can't
be any guarantees. Not at all. You put in
a five, you will be guaranteed to pay a five.
No. It can go down. Yes. We can work with risks.
This is yes.
Therefore, the guarantee is death. I have
an IT guy from Omsk in my forum group. We
work with him once a month in the format of
board of directors. He asks philosophical questions.
He says, what is life? He says, IT guy, life
is pain, and in the end you die. Therefore,
there is no guarantee, honestly. Yes.
We have some tricky microphones again.
This year you have a very ambitious goal,
you have a thousand deals. Can you tell us
about last year, if we take... 217. 217 are
the objects that were assembled as projects
or that were bought out? And, and, and, as
I said, methodology. I want to start with
the methodology. But importantly, we have
the Academic Academy, it appeared there on
June 1st. These are my past achievements,
so what will this figure give us?
It's just interesting. Out of 217 objects
bought in 2022, 1 can be
bought in 2022, sold in 2023, 1 can be bought
in January 2023, sold in March 2023. It doesn't
affect anything for me. It's just interesting.
217 is about the number of pieces bought last year.
Why is it important? Let's get to the bottom
of it. We've bought one object that I've just
shown in this one. I haven't shown it to Andrey,
have I? Wait, I'll show it to you. Oh, I didn't
show it to you. Look.
about things. This is one object with one
cadastral number. We buy it and one, two,
two, three, four, we cadastrate it for five objects.
We bought one deal, sold five objects, plus
five deals. And if we put a tenant on these objects,
do we consider it a deal? No, we don't. That is,
six deals,
Six. That's it. That's why the number can
be rotated like this. So that it is unambiguous
how many objects were bought. Then there is
no discrepancy. You bought 100. I didn't count
the pieces.
I don't know. Thank you. We want it this way.
And it is very important to me why we are
learning to speak one language for the first time.
Because they say, how many percent per year?
This is a tricky indicator. If you bought
for 10 and sold for 13 in pure, exactly for
12 months, it is 30. And if you bought for
10 and sold for 11.5 in 6 months, it is also 30.
Do we earn percent or rubles? What do you
put in your pocket? Percent or rubles? Probably rubles.
That's why we first set up the same speech apparatus.
I'm betting 1 ,000. I really want 1 ,000.
Let's do it. Not this year, but next. Again,
there will be 1 ,000 of us. And if you have
1 ,000 people in the academy, is it just one
deal for everyone?
Is that how it works? I say, not all transactions shine,
not everyone wants to talk. Anyway, as an orientation,
a thousand transactions made. As an orientation.
And inside, the amount of money is more important.
Here. To be as honest as possible.
I have two points. The first is that we have
20 minutes left until the end of the meeting.
Why? Because. Because. I assure you. And a few
questions from the online audience. Let's
start online first. Can you be a resident
of the Academy and the final investor of Ranthier
at the same time?
You can. We have such guys. We were just talking.
When we launched, I was consulting, I thought,
I'm trying to find people in my life who are
smarter than me in this. I began to tell,
I was looking for a producer for the launch
of the school. And three out of three told me,
you have two different products. One for brokers,
another for investors from two different categories.
No. Here is a person who has 100 million.
If tomorrow he has the opportunity to earn
a million on reselling information,
He doesn't frown. Who is he? An investor or
a broker? But these roles, if we divide them,
they mix. So, of course, there are such guys,
there are guys with 100 plus capital, and who,
please, throw objects at me, even more than
those who are beginners.
I have a friend who always tells me that Dima
is like a lemon. Yes, Vitalik? Thank you
very much. There is also a question here.
What were the biggest failures and mistakes
in your projects? In our last meeting, it
was all called mistakes, and we talked about
mistakes for two hours. Therefore, there is
no short answer for two hours.
I'll tell you. My main mistake is that I was
doing it for free. Like, you need to take
a cheap meter. They didn't work out the tenants,
or they didn't work it out at all. The most
fucked-up fucked-up was bought by a plant
in Chepayevsk for 3.5 million rubles. I was
there at various forums.
Really, I was sitting like this, I was already
booking Lamborghini Urus in yellow, lemon color,
and I was thinking, well, red or yellow line
is better with it, right? That's it, well,
three and a half million, a former factory,
30 thousand buildings, 12 hectares of land,
a pier wall that costs 100 million just to
fill the pier wall. We've been with them for
three years, well, we came out of zero, thank God.
That's the most, a freebie. The most fuck
-up is to get a freebie for me. Like, well,
it's cheap, it doesn't mean anything.
In the regions, believe me, 20 ,000 rubles
per meter is a good practice for the price.
On the first floor, on the carpet.
It was a beautiful shot, but again, I remember
the table, if in the percentage, 666.8 % it
turned out, but it doesn't say anything, in fact,
this is a tricky game. What happened there?
We were engaged in the implementation of unprofessional
property of this plant, and there was this dormitory,
and the question was to legally solve the
issue with the registered ones. And we just
sold this topic, rented a hostel and sold
it as GAP.
Well, that is, they bought, disassembled and sold,
and there it turned out to be some kind of
good figure. But in absolute quantities, well,
like, the cost was 20, and we sold for 50 something,
or what? Well, that is, such a topic.
Nobody saw it, but we understood. And this
topic with hostels, where workers are brought
by contract, there is a wild marginality,
very cool. These are contract workers of RGD,
who are brought. And there was also a case
when we submitted in the long term those who
are trained as electric train drivers. And
they have such contracts that they need to
live and study. Something was connected there now.
These were cool stories. What else? What do
I like? I showed the shopping center. There
was a shopping center, and we sold it as an
office bank of VTB. That is, everyone sold
the merchant as a merchant, like, well, here
it is, a shopping center and all that. And
we re-profiled it in advance. We concluded
a pre-rental agreement with VTB, with deposit conditions,
and sold it exactly as an office bank.
That is, we saw this topic in it.
And I had a cool case, Zig-Zag Udachi, I always
say it. It's a second-hand clothing chain.
They sort three tons of clothes a day. Three
tons of clothes, handles, tags, these hangers.
And we bought two objects in one pool. Well,
these are some stories. But I can also say
that out of what didn't work out, we were
in Samara, the former Shibka cinema, we wanted
to start a delphinarium there. And the theme
of the delphinarium was such that it was not
a show with dolphins, but dolphin therapy.
That's the topic. Well, in short, I really
wanted to, in the end, thank God, the owner
was told to open a five instead of the Dolphinarium.
He really wanted a five, damn the market.
As a result, we still started a fitness house
in Samara. And it turned out cool. The whole
building of the former cinema is a fitness house.
Well, these are some of the iconic moments.
Most of all, of course, in Samara, in PFO,
because that's where we did the most. That's
the question, right?
You've answered the question. You were told
that you were profiled in business center
via TC. Did you have any TC deals? No, it's
a separate story. I've seen it. It's a one
-story building. Yes, it's a separate story.
I see the potential. What can you look for
in the country? What can you profile? Former
car salons are a great topic.
What is a former car dealership? As a rule,
it is a coordinated connection to the highway,
a large asphalt site, and inside there is
already a lot of space, a lot of air, the
height of the ceilings is appropriate, and,
as a rule, everything is already ok with communications.
But the car dealership business is very much transformed,
and therefore, buying, you can plant some
anchors of the same type of traffic light,
and then fill it up, make such a shopping
center of regional value.
There is a good marginality in the experience
of realized projects. The biggest story was,
again, in the suburbs of Samara, we bought
a former building for 200 million, there was
a bearing factory, we resold it for 450 million
It was a record. But then we started to scale
it up in other cities and regions. It was
such a case. Come to Samara, I'll show you.
There is a review tour, we will see at least
100 projects implemented in a day. You can
take a ride. I have such memoirs, Anton.
The question is, how is the interaction with
investors established in the Academy? There
are these 30 projects, yes, conditionally,
of which, as I understand correctly, you take
the top two, for example, you personally,
well, under the management of these investment money,
yes, respectively, the rest of the projects,
There is an investor who is not in the academy,
who just wants to buy ready-made gabs, ready
to pay 1-2-3 million with pleasure, if there
is already some kind of packaging.
Or what are the conditions if you want to
transfer some capital to these investors?
Look, I always answer in numbers. In my academy
we invented three tariffs. The first one is broker,
where people learn to start earning without
any investments. The second one is company.
It is focused on people who want to build
a business here. And I help them to build
a business, where they want a team in the state,
or even a team from him alone. That is, he
wants something like a business on it. The
third tariff I have, on which I have now taken
only three people, is called my investment coaching.
That is, people with a capital of 100 plus
million come to me, they pay me in advance
for this job, for conditional investment coaching.
And then we draw a strategy with them and decide.
That's why I work with investors only in such
a model now. Who came to me in advance. And I,
well, that is, why even now I can't take it,
well, like, if 10 more people come to you now,
you will take each one for a hundred, I can't.
I just don't have, I have a different hiding
place in projects.
My conversion rate is 7%. Out of 30, I need
to buy 2, and I need to create another 100
to buy 7. That's why I have such a story.
And how does it work inside? I'm not going
to limit anyone, and even those projects,
I'm just showing, we disassemble projects
every day, I don't drag the blanket on myself,
because I have external sources of income
of projects.
not only from the Academy. I am interested
in what the Academy is. It is a daily information parser,
a funnel. And the guys fill this funnel with
projects every day. From these 30 projects,
you can buy any of them, working on it.
But it needs to be sold to the investor, to
convince him that it will be so, to step into
the region, to the Golden Wheel from Moscow,
to the working village of Vanina and say that
there is life there. Therefore, inside, you know,
we have such an essence that there are no
global restrictions.
I showed it to Dima. Guys are making deals
with each other. You can learn how to interact
with investors. We have a chat called Investors' applications.
For example, a person comes in and says, guys,
I have a capital of 30 million, I'm considering
such and such objects, I want to do it in
such and such regions, for example. There
is a chat where the guys write in the same chat,
I have an investor, capital is 50 plus, such
and such regions.
This is an exchange of information. What do
we earn here, globally? We earn information.
We buy and sell information. I have information
that there will be such a profitability in
this project, and I have information that
there is an investor who is interested in this.
Therefore, this is close to the beginning
of some kind of stock exchange history, where
information is traded.
I don't look at these objects as objects.
I look at the price, the map, the existing forecast,
and the name of the tenant. That's it. And
I see that there are people who, for example,
I already have Sasha in our company, they
have been doing it for six months anyway,
since June. And he calls me one day and says,
Dima, listen, it's done. So the tenant is
in the first place.
I thought, Sasha, good, yes. So, you know,
what I create, I want to create a community
of people in which people really earn. I have
a very mercantile goal. The richer the people
around me, the more I can sell them goods, services.
Ideas, something else. It's profitable to
grow rich people around you. Damn, it's so profitable.
If I answered, well, something like that.
Therefore, within the interaction, I always
tell the guys, come to the event, get to know
each other, communicate with each other. Here
you have opportunities. I know, Kolya, please
tell me about yourself. You are in real estate,
you have competencies, cars, two more carts.
Tell me.
My name is Anton Glavatsky, I run a small blog,
maybe someone reads it. Usually at such events,
at least a few people heard about me and know me.
Accordingly, I have been in real estate for
8 years. Basically, I have everything from trading.
Accordingly, I started with retail. In retail
there is the Red Ocean. Accordingly, now it
is mainly production and warehouse objects.
There, the payback is more interesting, that is,
even with a payback of less than a year, I buy
something with a federal lender. A year! Guys,
a year!
Well, that is, a lot of good personal capital
is already being invested in other people's projects,
because there is enough money, there is always
a large deficit of projects. Therefore, I ask
such questions that who would rather give
money to? Well, accordingly.
Please contact Anton, I read your blog, I'm interested.
Please, people who write about real estate,
earn real money, real capital. A person goes
and looks for someone to give money to. Who
needs money? No? No? I can also tell you something
about trading.
Again, you have competence in warehouses.
I don't understand warehouses at all. I don't
understand anything there at all. Very good.
Thank God. Again, I understood that
this is the market on numbers. So, please,
contact Kantonov, meet him, talk to him. He
has both money and experience. What else do
you need?
You have already said several times that there
are three packages of training. That is, let's say,
until the first one passes, the second one
is better not to get involved. It all depends
on the strategy, I can say. It all depends
on the strategy. Because the guys who came
to me, for example, say, well, that's it,
I have a company, I want to be here. I see
the market, opportunities and so on, come on.
I call it individual training.
We communicate with all of them, from 7 to 8,
and I have a separate chat with those who
teach me individually, and they can ask me
questions in person. So, in order to immerse
yourself in your technology, it is better
to start with a cheaper package, to go through
some path? As a salesperson, I must say, of course,
no. Only the most expensive and only so.
But my model turned out to be so interesting
that I have much more money in future joint deals.
Therefore, I will say that it is not very
profitable from the point of view of sales
of some products. In principle, I don't care.
I will be very rude and say that it doesn't
matter at all. It is very beneficial for me
that you have learned to do this. It will
be your company, you personally, it doesn't
matter at all. Because, conditionally, you
will collect 10 projects. I will buy one of them,
and we will earn money together. But I will earn.
And the other 9, you will do something with them.
Somehow. That's why it doesn't matter at all.
I care about this result, so that the table
is filled every day.
And we are already starting to talk to the
residents of the Academy in one language.
We are starting. We are talking to someone.
We are starting with someone. That's why I have
such a goal of creating an online community.
People. Any business is made by people. First who,
then what.
Any business. And in this business, damn,
I'll even tell the guys, damn, one deal a month
is a million. One deal. One deal. And you
have 200 people passing by in a day. If, here
they are, here are the opportunities. Andrey,
by the way, who is with me and Dima, they
are studying at the premiums, as a company.
Here they are, Hit Invest, Andrey, please.
This is his project. Why did I add it at the end?
We just disassembled it this morning. In the morning.
From Tyumen. Yes, guys from Tyumen. The facility
is located in Omsk. It is in open sale. We
have a resident from Omsk. Stepan Gipsky is
connecting today. He says, yes, I know this project,
I blocked it.
He says, no, the price was 30 million, now
it's 33. I say, why did you park? He says,
second line, I'm local, I know, and let's go.
And I'm not local and I don't know. I've never
been to Omsk. Never. To my shame. But what
do I see? First floor of an apartment house,
a set of tenants, five parts are decommissioned.
I ask the locals why they sell GABs in maps.
They say, well, 100 plus. I understand that
by buying this, even for 35, by cadastrating,
there is a rent flow of about 450 thousand
rubles per month. I multiply by 115, even
by 110, and I get that I have the opportunity
to enter at 35 and exit at 50-55, selling
5 objects instead of 1.
And Stepan, a local and experienced one, failed.
Yes. Does he know Omsk better than I do? 100%.
100%. Definitely. By the way, the landlord
is sitting there more vividly. He says, well,
the realtor told me that the revenue is so-so. Cool.
Chizhik can go there, the configuration allows it,
until you enter Omsk. As soon as they enter,
I understand, we will roll back to the previous slides,
how much Chizhik will earn. It will go brighter
with a scooter on the road. In addition to this,
I have even darker, brighter and so-so brightness.
Well, it's not scary. Well, when we go there,
for example, we buy a room, a five goes there, right?
You have to cry, in theory. And we bought it,
we knew, actually. Five, I'll name it in numbers now,
I won't talk about a non-realized project.
In numbers, the MAP was 180, there will be 450,
right? You have to cry. But
not now, okay, we'll do it for a year. Well,
fuck it. And all this is lying on the open market.
It's on Avito. It's like a five in Ufa, which
has been lying around for two years. So, what
did I want to say? Andrey, this is Andrey.
Ah, well, here are the questions, requests.
Who needs a QR code, you can. And here we
have a wonderful Dimit, a man in a white beautiful jacket.
Dmitry is the head of sales department. I will
tell you that the infrastructure of the academy
is being serviced by 18 people. We
have technical specialists, care service and
so on.
And it turns out that it is very profitable
for me that you learn to make money. I don't know,
now a nymph will shine over a bald one. That's why.
Not for everyone, but is it suitable for everyone?
No. As I always say, I'm bald, someone likes
hairy ones. That is, we can not fight over
these things.
No, I can say something motherly to my shame.
And someone who is a saint and doesn't say
a single word, we can also not fit in. Well,
anything, not for everyone. I will share the
information with pleasure. And since I really
like it on this topic, I see a lot of opportunities here,
I will be glad to see you on any tariff, only
not on the most expensive one.
Since I have to be responsible for the market
for the growth of the capital, I'll see what
kind of person he is. It's scary sometimes.
Just kidding. I think that's it, guys. Marina,
what did you say about the questions? Thank you.
That's it? It's okay? Do you rate it?
Yes, who has questions? And again, look, our
goal is communication, so the heat should
start there, in theory. Nina, are you up?
What do you want to say?
No? Well, give a couple of words to my beautiful
wife for the final. Come on, come on, come here.
This is my wife, everything that concerns...
And now to Dmitry, in the end, too. Come on,
you, while Nina is coming. Tell us. Yes, by
the way, Dmitry, who is doing sales today,
doesn't know me. Hello everyone. If you are
not going to enter, there is just a question.
What are you doing here?
Just if there are any questions regarding
the activities of the Academy, do not
hesitate to make a request. Otherwise, we
pay attention to what?
We hold an event, 4 applications
come in, or 10-15 applications. Then you
start calling everyone who hasn't left an application.
People say, oh, by the way, I had a question.
By the way, I had a question. Don't be shy
to click. Write any question. We'll hear from you.
See you. Thank you. Dima will tell you how
great we are. Come here, Nina. You didn't
want to, but I still can't. You tried hard today.
You did your hair, and you took off your dark jacket.
Dima, can I just add? Not just Dmitry's wife,
but a person with a lot of experience in the
ready-to-pay business, head of the legal
department of the GAP Academy, a professional
in these matters. Everything that concerns transactions,
registration, so that you understand, I don't
think about it at all.
Yes, good evening. I would like to say that
I have also been working in the market of
ready-made real estate businesses for a very
long time. In particular, I am responsible
for the legal work of each project.
Any project that we finance and work with,
it goes through me, through my top list, which
is about 30 points. I am very persistent and
demand everything. And even a little more.
Therefore, I am also very glad to talk to you.
If there is something to share, I will gladly
share it with our experience. Thank you all
for coming, listening today. I also talked
to many people and it's very nice to see people
here who
Thank you very much. I can
say that I don't like to
be the smartest person in the room. If I don't
know the ready-made market of Moscow, I don't
know it.
I don't understand it at all, I don't know it,
I don't want to figure it out. And I have
a lot of guys inside who are more competent
than me in some questions. It's cool. I mean,
if I don't go around the warehouses, I know
that suddenly, God forbid, something will
be needed.
I'd rather call Anton or send a person and say,
go there, but don't ask me about the money,
I don't know anything. That's why I also want
to surround myself with people who have something
to learn, not only in terms of professional,
but also some kind of ethics, I don't know,
life standards and so on. That's why, something
like that. Thank you very much, I'll probably
kick you out. Go somewhere, let's talk. Thank you.
All questions, let's go talk. Thank you.
Amen.